# QC working group teleconference 9 August 2023

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann
- Mathias Walzer

---

## Controlled vocabulary

Mathias & Chris will do a final review of [PR206](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/psi-ms-CV/pull/206) with the MsQuality terms so that it can be merged.

How should we represent spectrum counts in the CV: as absolute counts or relative percentages?
- The current example relates to the number of MS/MS spectra identified as a contaminant peptide, but this is a more general question as well.
- QuaMeter has previously used relative ratios.
- In contrast, ratios can be derived from absolute counts complemented by the total number of spectra.
- Mathias will reflect on how to best represent this based on how this metric will be used for QC reporting and ask for feedback afterwards.
As a side note: the relative intensity of contaminants could be an interesting QC metric as well, as they might dominate the measurements when there's a low sample content.

## Software manuscript

Discussion of datasets to be used as an illustration of the mzQC software libraries:
- Mathias shared QC metrics for the iPRG2015 dataset. However, all runs are extremely alike, making this a very boring dataset. The seemingly interesting BSA contaminants in sample 4 were actually explicitly spiked in.
- The autoQC dataset that we looked at previously was also too clean.
- Chris has a few nice examples of failed datasets in his PTXQC paper. He will revisit some of these files to check whether they can be used for our purpose.

## mzQC format manuscript

Mathias has (unpublished) longitudinal data from the CRG team in Barcelona with historical QC runs over a two year period on two different instruments.
