# QC working group teleconference 13 December 2023

- Wout Bittremieux
- Dave Tabb
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

Excused:

- Chris Bielow
- Nils Hoffmann

---

## PSI Meeting 2024:

- Registration for the [PSI Meeting 2024](https://www.psidev.info/hupo-psi-meeting-2024) will open soon.
- Which working group members will attend in-person? Yes: Wout. Maybe: Julian, Mathias. No: Dave.
- There will likely be several travel grants available to support in-person attendance.
- We'll try to schedule afternoon sessions to allow for remote participation, given the time zone difference.

## TDAuditor

- Dave shared an update on TDAuditor. The main next step will be to request several CV terms to finalize development of TDAuditor.
- mzQC integration is currently by reading a text file exported by TDAuditor in R and exporting to mzQC using rmzqc.

## Specification document

- Wout and Chris did a final pass through the specification document two weeks ago to make sure the reviewer comments were adequately addressed and to ensure that the document aligns with technical specifications.
- The specification document has been resubmitted to the PSI document process. Official PSI acceptance should hopefully follow soon!

# mzQC software libraries manuscript

We discussed steps needed to finalize the mzQC software libraries manuscript:

- Mathias described the latest QC metrics data analysis update, followed by a discussion on how best to visualize and discuss the results in the manuscript.
- Mathias will share the latest version of the data analysis notebook for collaborative feedback on the data analysis presentation.
- Wout will do an editing pass through the manuscript.
- Goal: finish the manuscript in the next 1.5 week and put a preprint on bioRxiv before the holidays.

## mzQC specification manuscript

We briefly revisted the use cases for the mzQC specification manuscript:

- Outlier detection: Wout & Dave will work on performing outlier detection on the previous MTb data Dave has used.
- Longitudinal analysis of QC metrics: Mathias has access to longitudinal data from QCloud. A use case geared towards core facilities is very important to include.
- Repository/large-scale analysis: Julian could get some data from MPC dating back from 2015 to now.
- Lipidomics: Nils has a lipidomics dataset where QC metrics can be investigated in the context of the experimental design.

## Miscellaneous

- No meeting in two weeks because of the holiday period. The next meeting will be on January 10, 2024.
