# QC working group teleconference 26 April 2023

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

Excused:

- Nils Hoffman
- David Jimenez-Morales

---

## Working Group leadership

As several people's professional status has changed or will change in the near future, we discussed potential leadership changes in the QC Working Group.

- Dave Tabb has indicated that he will step down as WG Chair and will continue as Chair Emeritus.
- Mathias Walzer has nominated Wout Bittremieux as WG Chair. Wout has accepted the nomination.
- Dave Tabb has nominated Mathias Walzer as WG Chair. Mathias has declined the nomination.

We will have an **official election during our next call on May 24, 2023.**

- If you would like to be considered as WG Chair, please submit your self-nomination to the mailing lists.
    - Current candidates for WG Chair are: Wout Bittremieux.
- We will have a vote during the next call among the WG Chair candidates. If you cannot attend the call, you will be able to cast your vote electronically.

## Charter

Our [Working Group Charter](https://psidev.info/quality-control-working-group-charter) was modified during the PSI Spring Meeting with updated goals and milestones.

There are a few more potential papers that would be interesting to write, but these don't need to be included as official goals at this point. Relevant papers are:

- QC for top-down proteomics (Dave).
- Evaluate major proteomics papers from the perspective of QC to get people to think critically about data reuse (code name: "take 'm down a peg").

The PSI Steering Commitee has received funding for an overhaul of the website, including porting it to a Wordpress backend. We will need to make sure that new content is transferred correctly, but current changes seem still possible.

SC has received funding for overhaul of website. Will change to Wordpress website. We'll need to make sure that content is transferred properly.

## mzQC software libraries manuscript

Wout did a thorough editing pass and had a few questions:

- The Methods mentions a QC peak file and a CSF peak file, but only the QC file was used to generate the results. Remove the mention of the CSF file.
- The current Results are a bit lacklustre. Can we compute QC metrics for multiple peak files to show a longitudinal trend to spruce up the use case a bit? Yes, there are multiple QC files in the autoQC public dataset.
    - We also discussed computing a few different QC metrics that could be more relevant, including mass accuracy (would need spectrum identification) and injection time.
    - **Mathias** will run the Nextflow workflow on all autoQC files and share the corresponding mzQC files. **Everyone** should have a look at the results to decide how to present them as interestingly as possible in the manuscript.
- jmzqc has been fixed locally, but the new version still needs to be committed to the online repository.

## Miscellaneous

- Sign up for the bioinformatics short course taught be Dave now!
- Our next meeting will be on **May 24, 2023** (note that we will skip the May 10 teleconference).
