# QC working group teleconference 6 September 2023

- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

Excused:

- Chris Bielow

---

## TDAuditor

Dave described updates in the TDAuditor metrics. These are chosen with the goal to be as informative as possible, rather than exhaustively consider all possible metrics.

How can TDAuditor refer to spectra without a native ID (i.e. in msAlign files (very similar to MGF)). You can use the scan index instead. The mzTab-M documentation has a nice [overview table on which mechanisms exist to refer to specific spectra](https://hupo-psi.github.io/mzTab/2_0-metabolomics-release/mzTab_format_specification_2_0-M_release.html#use-of-identifiers-for-input-spectra-to-a-search).

Dave is continuing with the TDAuditor development. Next steps include implementing mzQC export (Mathias has shared some example code) and requesting any missing terms in the PSI-MS CV.

## CV

We had a discussion on what exactly constitutes the definition of a CV term based on [behavior of rmzqc](https://github.com/MS-Quality-Hub/rmzqc/issues/21). Mathias has already discussed this with Chris.

## mzQC software libraries manuscript

Mathias has shared a [Colab notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1yDZWUrJ4affgfpp8FG2MPGSktOeOiCs1) with an initial analysis of the QC metrics.

Current workflow:
1. Convert the raw files to mzML files using ThermoRawFileParser.
1. Perform sequence database searching with Comet (results in mzIdentML files).
1. Create an mzQC file for each mzML file with all three software libraries. pymzqc uses the mzIdentML files as well.
1. Merge all mzQC files for each run into a single mzQC file.
1. Do some data processing on the metric values and plot it as a heatmap.
    - The current percentile rank scaling doesn't make that much sense. Use standard scaling instead.

How do we want to present the results in the manuscript? Our main goal is to demonstrate the functionality of the software libraries, but this is more convincing with a relevant QC sample as well.

## mzQC format manuscript

Mathias has created a [QC2 dashboard](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1EXwd13i-PaIPicbtwFKHEiwfOQxPFIrq?usp=sharing).

- This is longitudinal data from 2 instruments over 2 years at CRG Barcelona. (The dataset is currently private on PRIDE with the publication still pending.)
- Mathias gave a brief walkthrough of the dashboard, which can be presented as one of the mzQC use cases.

## Miscellaneous

- Wout will be at HUPO in two weeks.
- Dave will be unavailable from Sept 24 to Oct 27.

We will skip the meeting in 2 weeks and reconvene on Oct 4.
