# HUPO-PSI Spring Meeting 17–19 April 2023

## April 18, 2023 9:00–12:30

- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann
- Gerhard Liebisch
- Mathias Walzer

[Lipidomics Standards Initiative](https://lipidomicstandards.org/) checklist

- Demo / walk-through by Gerhard & Nils.
- Currently fixed drop-down menus are used to provide different options. Can we extend the checklist to use existing CV terms for the requested concepts / information?
- Can we explore SDRF to move towards cross-omics and cross-repository annotated metadata? A first step is to convert the checklist into an SDRF template. Export to a machine-readable format instead of PDF is straightforward from a technical point of view.

Universal Spectrum Identifier for lipidomics

- USIs can directly be used to point to (public) lipidomics spectra. The final interpretation part should officially be a ProForma string, but specifying a lipid description instead does not interfere with USI parsing.
- We can use a non-official USI extension to represent lipid interpretations. **Wout & Nils** will explore adding this to spectrum visualization from USIs in spectrum_utils by using LipidCreator to generate potential fragments from lipid names (highlight matched m/z values for unique isobaric fragments as well as missing fragments). This would be highly valuable for the lipidomics community and can be published as an application note.

## April 18, 2023 14:30–15:45

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann
- Gerhard Liebisch
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

We discussed the status of the mzQC software libraries manuscript.

Action points:
- **Nils** will fix the metrics exporting issue in jmzqc.
- **Nils** will run the example nextflow pipeline to ensure that it works and note any relevant aspects to be mentioned in the manuscript.
- **Wout** will do an editing pass through the manuscript to move towards a final version.

The manuscript is currently in an advanced state already and our goal is to finalize it in the very near future.

## April 18, 2023 16:00–18:30

- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann
- Gerhard Liebisch
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

mzQC use cases:

- Discussion on various use cases for mzQC, also some plans by Magnus & Ben (assign dataset scores).
- Lipidomics use cases:
    - Long-term monitoring of internal standard intensities (e.g. max 5–10% variation) and lipolitic effects from liver homogenate source material.
    - Human plasma data: summary concentration of specific lipid species. To be determined which lipid species to investigate.
- Nils maintains a database of quantitative lipidomics experiments, which could be used to serve (smaller) amounts of QC-related data (i.e. feature tables derived from mzTab-M files) as well.

Publications:

- Target journal: Analytical Chemistry.
- Goal: Publish both papers back-to-back. One consideration is that the libraries manuscript will be finalized in the near future, whereas the format manuscript needs some more work to develop the use cases. We can still release the libraries manuscript as a preprint on bioRxiv while we briefly delay submission to synchronize both manuscripts.
- Mention in both manuscripts that we strongly encourage community contributions.

## April 19, 2023 9:00–11:00

- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann
- Peter Horvatovich
- Ben Neely
- Magnus Palmblad
- Mathias Walzer

Discussion on mzQC use cases:

- There is a desire for thresholding to specify data acceptance criteria. Thresholds and flagging is currently mentioned as a pending issue in the specification document (section 10.3), but in essence only the corresponding CV terms are needed to include decision thresholds in mzQC files.
Having a user-friendly mzQC viewer would be valuable. Although mzQC files aim to provide all data, custom plotting (informed by semantic information captured by the CV) is typically needed to create informational figures. Can we develop a general-purpose viewer for initial visualization as well?
- Some people are doing high-throughput QC decision-making (e.g. Jenny Van Eyck has a go/no-go system based on QC samples). Can we reach out to them to incorporate their metrics in the CV and learn about their tools and methods?
- Single-cell and high-throughput plate systems necessitate proper quality control! This is the right time to release mzQC and rally people around proper strategies towards QC.

## April 19, 2023 11:30–12:30

Future of QC working group & [working group charter](https://www.psidev.info/quality-control-working-group-charter):

- Changes in professional status of several core members: Dave in semi-retirement, Mathias' appointment will end in June and he might not stay in proteomics, Wout recently started a faculty position.
- Successful adoption of mzQC depends on actively engaging stakeholders and making the format useful.
- Can we reach out to big initiatives (e.g. NCI cancer moonshot) and convince them of the relevance of QC for reproducible science to jumpstart adoption and as a potential source of dedicated funding?
- Dave has indicated in the past that he would not be opposed to stepping down as chair. There is a proposal that Wout will become WG chair and Dave will become co-chair. We will discuss this during the next teleconference and announce this via the mailing list.
