# QC working group teleconference 15 March 2023

- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann

Excused:

- Chris Bielow
- Mathias Walzer

---

## mzQC libraries manuscript

We discussed the manuscript and addressed comments by Mathias:

- Differentiate between syntactic and semantic validation in table 2.
- No need to have separate sections for each tool in the Methods, because they (mostly) cover the same functionality. In the Results, subsections are useful because each tool does a different analysis.
- A figure with the workflow is definitely useful to include to provide an overview at a glance (given some aesthetical improvements).

## GitHub issues

- We discussed several GitHub issues and closed ones that have been addressed in the mean time.
- During the Spring Meeting we should be able to go through a lot of the issues efficiently with a core group and resolve them. Not all issues might be relevant anymore (e.g. outdated metric requests).
- Goal will be to clear all issues prior to the official release of v1.0.
