# QC working group teleconference 18 January 2023

- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann
- Mathias Walzer

Excused:

- Chris Bielow
- David Jimenez-Morales

---

## Member status update

- Wout started his faculty position at the University of Antwerp.
- Mathias will be in a transition phase starting in the summer.

## PSI Spring Meeting

[Registration for the Spring Meeting is now open!](https://psidev.info/hupo-psi-meeting-2023)

- Present (in-person): Wout, Mathias, Nils>
- We only need 1 full day (Tuesday), whereas the preliminary calendar dedicates two days to mzQC. Wout will send an email to Sandra and Magnus.
- Nils invited Gerhard Liebisch (organizer of Lipidomics Standards Initiative) to have a discussion on lipidomics standardization (day 1).

## ASMS

- Should we present an mzQC poster to accompany our imminent preprints? Wout will attend ASMS but will have his own poster.

## Manuscripts and document process

Goal: release preprints prior to the PSI Spring Meeting. We can do it! 💪

- Finish the tools manuscript first, the mzQC format manuscript second.
- Mathias has emailed Sylvie to let her know that we want to synchronize the release of the specification document with the manuscripts and that's why we're holding off on replying to the comments from the document process for a little while.
- Mathias will provide a small summary about the current status and ongoing progress to Sylvie and reviewers to keep them in the loop.

## CV

- [PR 165](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/psi-ms-CV/pull/165) has been fully reviewed and is ready for merging.
- Discussions on [PR 172](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/psi-ms-CV/pull/172):
    - How detailed should the definition of an "outlier" be? Often points exceeding 1.5 IQR are considered outliers, but lots of different algorithms and statistical measures exist. We don't need to specify how an outlier is defined in the term itself, but can instead attach another term (in the metadata) that provides this information to allow more flexibility. This would require a rules file that ensures that when an outlier term is present, a metadata term with the criterion needs to be provided as well.
    - Peak density: Mathias gave examples of how peak density can be used to interpret the data quality. Mathias will update the CV term based on the discussion.
    - Specification of Q1, Q2, Q3 vs quantiles: Quantiles are more flexible, but specifying the quartiles might be more straightforward to visualize them. We will develop a companion user guide to assist users with how to interpret QC metrics for visualization purposes.

## Miscellaneous

- It could be useful have some promotional material ready for people to use in their presentations.
