# QC working group teleconference 4 October 2023

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Mathias Walzer

Excused:

- Dave Tabb

---

## mzQC software libraries manuscript

- Mathias presented an update on the heatmap with QC metrics, including scaling compared to reference values.
    - Mathias will write the corresponding Methods for the use case with a description of the dataset that was used and the processing performed to obtain the QC metrics.
    - Mathias will add an overview figure of the mzQC workflow.
    - There is an unexpectedly low identification rate (25% from Mathias' results versus 64% in the original results). Discussion on which settings might be the culprit. Chris & Mathias are looking further into this issue.
- All of us will draft a description of the QC metric results. This does not need to be super extensive (1–2 paragraphs) because our main focus is on the usability of the tools rather than the specific content of the QC metrics.

## mzQC format manuscript

Use case: multi-dataset (repository) QC.

- How can we do QC across multiple public datasets that contain very heterogeneous data? Consequently, lots of metrics will not be relevant.
    - Number of identified spectra/peptides/proteins per run or per minute/hour. This should correlate with historical instrument improvement (faster scanning, etc.).
    - Total RT range (from `msScans.txt`) or effective RT range (i.e. when peptides were identified; from `evidence.txt`).
    - LC performance based on the intensity distribution over the RT range?
    - Precursor charge distribution.
    - Submission date (from the PRIDE metadata).
    - Species (from the PRIDE metadata).
- Suggestion: for simplicity, use all PRIDE datasets with MaxQuant identification results. Most metrics can be directly derived from the `evidence.txt` file.

## Specification document

As we are now approaching the finalization of our first manuscript, we can resume the PSI documentation process. Notify the PSI that we now provide several software implementations, did extensive testing, and prepared manuscripts.
