# QC working group teleconference 23 August 2023

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffman
- Dave Tabb
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## Controlled vocabulary

- Thomas Naake contributed a [new PR](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/psi-ms-CV/pull/212) that moves interpretations of metrics to the `comment` field. Chris will review the PR, after which it will be ready for merging.
- A CV term for contaminant identifications ([issue 209](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/psi-ms-CV/issues/209)) remains pending for now.

## TDAuditor

Dave has given a progress update on the TDAuditor developments. Some discussions on how to produce a JSON file in C#. Mathias will send Dave some more info.

## mzQC validator

The mzQC validator is [operational online](https://hupo-psi.github.io/mzQC/validator/) and uses the latest pymzqc release candidate.
- It uses automatic deployment of a new Docker container on Quay whenever a new version of pymzqc is released.
- Mathias will write some additional documentation about the deployment so that users could run it locally in the same way as well.

**TODO:** Mention the validator in the mzQC software tools manuscript as an example of how pymzqc can be used.

## mzQC software libraries manuscript

- Use case: Chris had a look for relevant datasets we can use. After some fruitless searching on PRIDE, he selected a dataset from the PTXQC paper. We will extract the following metrics:
- jzmqc: TIC / base peak intensity
- rmzqc: ion injection time
- pymzqc: identification rate & mass calibration (in combination with Comet processing in a workflow)

**Goal:** Share a script to compute these metrics and an example mzQC file with Mathias by **Sept. 6** (sooner is better). Mathias will combine all scripts in a workflow and run that on all files.

- If you notice that a metric is missing while you're implementing the script, directly request it from the PSI-MS-CV.
- To ensure correct merging of the different mzQC files: use the base file name of the run as the label for the `runQuality`.

## Miscellaneous

Wout should include the meeting ID and passcode for the Teams meeting in the meeting announcements.
