# QC working group teleconference 29 March 2023

- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann
- Dave Tabb

Excused:

- Chris Bielow
- Mathias Walzer

---

## PSI Spring Meeting

Schedule for the QC working group during the [PSI Spring Meeting](https://psidev.info/hupo-psi-meeting-2023):

**Monday, April 17**

- 9:00–18:30: Joint MS / PI / QC / MOD session.

**Tuesday, April 18**

- 9:00–12:30: Lipidomics Standards Initiative (Gerhard Liebisch & Nils Hoffmann).
- 14:30–15:45: Polish GitHub repository (address open issues, check examples for completeness and consistency, update documentation).
- 16:00–18:30: Software library round-up and finalize manuscript. (Invite David J. to join.)

Dave has teaching engagements today and will only be available to a limited extent.

**Wednesday, April 19**

- 9:00–10:30: mzQC format manuscript & develop the use cases.
- 11:00–12:30: Discuss the future of QC working group.
- 14:30–18:30: Common session.

## Controlled vocabulary

Mathias proposed three new CV terms based on example values:

```
"MS:4000xx1", "iRT calibration formula", "value": "y = 1070.82 + 6.38 x"

"MS:4000xx2", "iRT calibration adjusted r-squared", "value": "0.9929"

"MS:4000xx3", "identified contaminants", "value": {
    "MS:1003169": ["VPQVSTPTLVEVSR", "HLVDEPQNLIK", "QGFEPPSFVGWF", "DEYDPTIEDSYR", "ASAELIEEEVAK", "KLVNELTEFA", "LVNELTEFAK", "FDIAVDGEPLGR", "IYWVDLER", "LNDELPQVIHK", "QEGVPPFFSWGF", "LDLEIATYR", "VFDEFKPLV", "TPQVVVPVLTESSR", "TAILDYLER", "AEEEEILAASVK", "YISTPEYDEDDR", "VTNELALFEK", "IEDWLYVR", "TLEKNLVFEA", "VEGIFDDGPLAR", "VKLDFFPEV"],
    "MS:1002733": [864, 793, 789, 567, 503, 488, 358, 271, 149, 133, 116, 115, 92, 82, 72, 70, 66, 45, 32, 31, 30, 14]
}
```

- "iRT calibration formula": Rather than representing the equation as a string, represent it as an n-tuple, where the order of the values correspond to polynomial terms. I.e. a linear equation is represented by a two-tuple consisting of (slope, intercept). More general, the position in the n_tuple indicates the power of `x`: position `n` → `x^0`, position `n - 1` → `x^1`, position `n - 2` → `x^2`, etc.
- "iRT calibration adjusted r-squared": No comments, should be linked to the relevant STATO term (if it exists).
- "identified contaminants"
    - There was some uncertainty concerning its intended usage. Does this term represent contaminants within a single run or across multiple runs? In the latter case, there might be a significant number of zero values, because not all contaminants will be detected in each run. Different data representations can be considered, e.g. wide (matrix data type for mzQC) with peptides as rows and runs as columns, which explicitly represents the absence of observations, or long (table data type for mzQC) with peptide-run pairs as rows.
    - What is the term for the abundance information? Currently it is "peptide-level spectral count", but any other quantification value would be relevant as well. How do we allow such flexibility?
    - Contaminants are often small molecules as well, the current example and the corresponding definition would not support this. There is no appropriate term to describe small molecules in the PSI-MS-CV, and this is a larger discussion that multiple working groups are facing at the moment, so we do not need to support small molecules at the moment.

Wout will submit the first two CV terms to the PSI-MS-CV, while the latter needs some more discussion/clarification.

## Manuscripts

The notebooks with example analyses for all libraries should be collected in a single repository associated with the manuscript so that users can easily find all information.

## Miscellaneous

This was the **final teleconference** before the PSI Spring Meeting! Due to the Easter break, we will skip our teleconference the next two weeks. See you all in Leiden/online in April! Preparation for the Spring Meeting will be conducted asynchronously via Slack and email.
