# QC working group teleconference 15 February 2023

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

---

## [Spring Meeting](https://psidev.info/hupo-psi-meeting-2023)

- Wout, Mathias, Nils will attend in person.
- Dave (partially) and Chris (likely) will attend remotely.

## CV

- [PR 172](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/psi-ms-CV/pull/172) has been fully approved and should get merged soon (likely Friday).
- There are still some orphan CV terms in the mzQC priority, but these remaining terms are lower priority to be ported over to the PSI-MS CV.

## Specification document

The document process is currently on hold to sync it with releasing our manuscript(s). The formal timeline is quite liberal, so there's no official pressure. We want to get our stuff out in the short term though.

## Manuscripts

**[mzQC software tools manuscript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1d-Il6MYJ5zQ-8UpabHe84L3Vau7bzuu5UZlTieGT2Js/edit):** technical note to introduce the software packages.

- Introduce the mzQC developers community.
- Introduce the libraries that people can use to integrate mzQC in their tools.
    - We provide robust libraries in multiple programming languages. Everything is properly tested.
    - We provide an online mzQC validator.
- Implementation cases: demonstrate how the software packages work individually and interoperate.

Current status:

- Notebooks with analyses are available.
- Next step: finish writing! Mathias will assign sections of the manuscript to different people.

**[mzQC format manuscript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fYPqDBqFamcjXlzX0RMStPOKQD4aHlQd9JHJAfqcjqs/edit?usp=sharing)**

- Show the inherent value of JSON: first time that JSON is used as an official data standard in proteomics.
    - Put an mzQC file into a generic JSON visualizer / visualization tool for exploratory data analysis to demonstrate that it can be used without special software.
    - JSON IO libraries are a core part of multiple programming languages, as opposed to XML, which requires third-party packages.
- Dave has contacted Matt Chambers to directly integrate mzQC export in QuaMeter.
