# QC working group teleconference 20 September 2018

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Jinmeng Jia
- Reza Salek
- Dave Tabb
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## CV

Julian has updated the CV to a new version 0.0.12:

- Restructuring of the CV terms and no more obsolete terms (only metrics from the example files for the moment).
- Please check whether the new metric names and descriptions are correct, otherwise let Julian know.
- Procedure to add new terms to the CV: request them via an issue on GitHub.
- Backwards compatibility: Sign of goodwill to early adaptors to ensure backwards compatibility. Meanwhile, mark those terms as deprecated so people know not to use them for future files.

How to use the CV in a mzqc file?

- Use the `value` from a `cvParam` to specify the dimensions of the metric (i.e. how many entries in a list/tuple/...).

## mzqc json format

[MaxQuant match-between-runs](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/-axtE9QM8EKM/W6OYy52sqjI/AAAAAAAATQc/7CcsLJ90VWkFGOPDc6GdnwrtbQ4XxYYjQCL0BGAYYCw/h900/2018-09-20.png) as an example of a QC metric spanning multiple files:

- RT aligned across multiple files based on identified (m/z, RT) features.
- Each panel contains the results for a single file.
- QC metric to score the alignment: distortions can be introduced, false feature matches.

How can we store this information in an mzqc file?

- The reference file should be specified.
- Feature alignment can be stored as a table with for each file the RTs of the aligned chromatographic peaks.

[Skyline](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/qcML-development/blob/master/meeting_notes/20180818-Skyline-QC-DDA-tutorial.pdf) can also be used to generate QC metrics spanning multiple files.

How to store multi-file metrics in an mzqc file?

- Mathias prepared [an example](https://gist.github.com/mwalzer/a745e7845bfde73f12a6fee09e5f23f5) with a few options.
- See the corresponding [issue](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/qcML-development/issues/45).
- We choose option 2: easier to see to which raw the values belong than for option 1, less opportunity for conflicting information between the CV and the mzqc file than for option 2.

## QC in metabolomics

How can we reach out to the metabolomics community?

- The current mzqc format seems to support most information that is relevant for metabolomics, CV terms are broadly applicable.
- Are there software packages that can support mzqc?
    - Current packages are not universally adopted.
    - And most labs still look at their QC manually.
    - Dave proposed to get in touch with a representative from a metabolomics lab, for example Oliver Fiehn, to inquire which tools they use.
- There is an [NIH think-thank](https://epi.grants.cancer.gov/Consortia/mQACC/) on QC for metabolomics.
    - Their discussions will be opened up to the public in the near future, Reza will keep an eye on this.
    - It would be interesting to get support from Metabolon for mzqc version 1.0. However, they don't really have an open business model.
- Are there any relevant metabolomics meetings we can attend to advertise mzqc? The [Metabolomics Society](http://metabolomicssociety.org/) conference will take place in The Hague in June 2019. We should endeavor to get to an end product at the HUPO-PSI 2019 spring meeting to show this at the metabolomics conference.
- Reza has contacts among the developers of MzMine, OpenMS, ... he can reach out to.

## Agenda items next month

- Big MIAPE update by Jinmeng.
- Which critical developments are required before we start writing the 1.0 manuscript?
- Several new example files.

## Action items

- Dave, Mathias, & Wout prepare new mzqc example files (i) using the new CV and (ii) across multiple files.
