# QC working group teleconference 25 October 2018

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Jinmeng Jia
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

---

## MIAPE

Jinmeng shared a checklist with [MIAPE information for a metabolomics experiment](https://github.com/Jinmeng-QC/MIAPE-QC/blob/master/Meeting%20MIAPE-QC%20-%20Metabolomics.md).

Discussion points based on this checklist:

- "Analytical Sequence Preparation": Describes how users have ordered their runs to avoid bias between different runs, based on the _sample analysis order_ and the _QC analysis order_.
    - The current naming might be a bit confusing, "run order" was suggested as an alternative name.
    - If users point to a complete protocol some (a lot) of things information might not need to be repeated in the MIAPE-QC.
- "Data Processing": The current draft mainly focuses on targeted metabolomics, whereas for untargeted metabolomics other aspects might be relevant.
    - We'll try to find common ground where possible. Similar situation for the number of identified MS2 spectra: this metric is not universally relevant for SRM / SWATH / shotgun experiments, but is still highly relevant where applicable.
    - Related: reference ranges might be useful. For example: the number of identified MS2 spectra will be very different between LTQ and orbitrap instruments.
    - Data processing can be similar between metabolomics and proteomics, as in both cases spectral libraries can be used for identification.

## JSON schema

Wout has created a [JSON schema](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/qcML-development/pull/47) to syntactically validate mzQC files.

- Should we try to keep the XML schema synced with this new JSON schema or not? No, we have deviated sufficiently from the previous XML schema, so we'll just use the JSON schema. The version number will be increased to 0.0.11 to reflect this.
- The JSON schema will allow syntactic validation of the JSON files, but some semantic validation needs to happen as well. See [issue #51](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/qcML-development/issues/51) for an overview of the additional validation steps.
- Naming: Our repository is currently named `qcML-development`, while we're not developing a qcML format anymore but the mzQC format. The repository will be renamed tomorrow to reflect this change, as communicated by Mathias on the mailing list. Similarly, the root nood of the mzQC files should change in the JSON schema.
- Further discussion of details related to the JSON schema and how it affects the mzQC files can happen in its pull request.

## Multi-file example

Mathias has provided a [multi-file example](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/qcML-development/pull/48).

- This example contains individual metrics for three raw files and one metric combining measurements for all three files.
- Currently all metrics are grouped under a single `runQuality`. Instead this should rather be individual `runQualities` for each of the raw files and a `setQuality` for the combined metric. Mathias will update his example accordingly.
- Check the use of the [STATO ontology](http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/stato.owl). It contains statistical terms that could be highly relevant, so we can avoid redefining such terms ourself.
- We only have two levels: `runQuality` for single runs and `setQuality` for results combined from multiple runs. Experiments could have multiple hierarchies though: cohorts > fractions > runs, ... We should provide clear examples so users know how to structure their mzQC files to reflect these hierarchies.

## Requirements for version 1.0

What do we need to progress to a 1.0 version?

- The CV is probably the most mature part at the moment.
- We need documentation with extensive and clear examples covering all possible use cases. Current examples are still mostly limited to single metrics, while we should also cover matrix or dataframe metrics, for example for SWATH use cases.
- The formal PSI specification document is required to establish an official PSI format. This is a lot of work though...
