# QC working group teleconference 19 July 2018

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Jinmeng Jia
- Reza Salek
- Dave Tabb
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## JSON format

- If we have metrics from multiple tools in the same mzqc file, how do we know which tool generated which metric(s)? Don't mix multiple tools directly, instead use individual `runQuality` elements to group metrics from the same tool together.
- How should we deal with fractionated experiments? Does a run correspond to a single raw file or the the fraction consisting of multiple raw files?

## CV

How to structure the accession numbers? Does each tool get its own accession for every metric it produces or do we try to have a single overarching accession for common metric produced by multiple tools?

- The CV can use hierarchical relations between various accessions.
- We should encourage accession reuse for simple and general metrics (e.g. MS2 count, ...).
- For specialized metrics each tool (or even "sub"tool, i.e. QuaMeter NIST vs QuaMeter ID-free vs QuaMeter SwaMe) can receive individual accessions. The necessity for individual accessions can be decided on a case-by-case basis.

### Reorganization of the CV

Currently there are some duplicate definitions in the CV. Julian proposes to completely overhaul the CV and start from scratch by adding accessions for the metrics included in the various example files (mzqc.json & qcML) that have been compiled.

Afterwards new CV accessions can be requested using the Github issues system.

## MIAPE-QC

- Jinmeng has sent around a "Meet the MIAPE-QC" document with a paragraph of example text how we would like to see the MIAPE reported in a manuscript.
- Jinmeng has performed text mining in 3000+ articles on PMC to check which information people typically report.
    - Sample preprocessing: Instead of providing detailed information people usually refer to a protocol or to the supplementary information. A lot of different sample preprocessing options leads a wide variety in reporting. It is important that detailed information on SOPs and protocols is (publicly) accessible (i.e. details on in-house protocols should be available).
    - MS identification: This seems to be reported pretty consistently.
- The main goal of the MIAPE-QC will be to educate people on best practises. For example: "how are technical replicates used to evaluate repeatability?" Information like this is hardly ever reported at the moment but essential to interpret the results.
- There might be some overlap between MIAPE-QC and MIAPE-Quant. If this is the case we should refer to MIAPE-Quant instead of duplicating their efforts. If MIAPE-Quant lacks some details we will work together with that user group to improve MIAPE-Quant.

## Action items

- Reza: Provide some literature on the use of QC metrics in metabolomics.
- Mathias: Illustrate what a QC metric spanning multiple files would look like. For example: MaxQuant's match-between-runs functionality can be evaluated based on the variation in RT for a peptide across raw files.
