# QC working group teleconference 15 February 2018

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Dave Tabb
- Julian Uszkoreit

---

## HUPO-PSI spring meeting

[Meeting details](http://psidev.info/content/hupo-psi-meeting-2018)

**Please register!**

Confirmed attendees:

- Dave: yes
- Wout: yes
- Julian & Martin: will register next week

Call to everyone else: please register and come to the meeting. It's free! Science! Good times!

### Meeting schedule

[Preliminary schedule](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14uyeHF9d3_E4K9Fsh5mLHwL5JUS2q49plNspwelGQ4A/edit?usp=sharing)

1. **Day 1**
    - Joint session
2. **Day 2**
    - Formalize suggested CV updates
        - Compile, integrate, and finalize all previous suggestions for CV terms.
    - Formulate additions to CV
        - Fill holes that currently haven't been addressed yet to be able to support a broad variety of use cases.
    - Develop examples of CV terms
        - Concrete representations of QC tool metrics as qcML data with corresponding CV terms, e.g. QuaMeter metrics.
    - Review updated MIAPE-QC
        - How do we define "minimal"? Create examples of MIAPE-QC compliant descriptions we'd like to see people include in their manuscripts.
3. **Day 3**
    - Special Topic: Implementation in repositories
        - Our wishlist for qcML support in data repositories, an actionable set of goals on how repositories can implement qcML support.
    - Special Topic: Current status of implementations

## JSON represenation

- Julian: We like the flexibility of JSON, so why not put everything in JSON instead of wrapping the JSON strings in an XML file?
- Dave: Consistency with other PSI efforts, validation.
- Revisit this topic when more people are in attendance.

## Miscellaneous

- Dave will spend some time at Northwest University in Potcheefstroom to work on metabolomics QC (aka "water sabbatical").
