# QC working group teleconference 20 December 2018

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Jinmeng Jia
- Mathias Walzer

---

## CV

- Call between Mathias and Roger (CRG): Roger will propose ~40 new CV terms
- Mathias will propose some new CV terms he needs as well


## mzQC API

Current mzQC processing tools from Mathias:
- [RawFileParser](https://github.com/compomics/ThermoRawFileParser) (collaborative effort between EBI and Ghent for cross-platform raw file processing) used to extract QC metrics from raw files
- Python tool to write mzQC files, R for plotting
- long-term goal: move this functionality to OpenMS

-> We want to provide a small Python API to process mzQC files. Mathias's code can be used as a starting point.


## Roadmap to mzQC version 1.0

What preparations do we need to do the next two months to be able to finalize the mzQC version 1.0 during the spring meeting?

- More examples to cover all possible use cases
	- SWATH (Dave)
- Prepare a checklist of tasks needed to release the format
- Initiate a first draft of the specification document

### Technical questions

- mzQC format
	- How to refer to elements? [Issue #50](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/issues/50). Prepare some examples to make an informed choice.
- MIAPE-QC: Jinmeng will discuss her latest progress with Weimin and communicate the status.
- CV
	- Try to be comprehensive in terms of the CV terms that are provided so that users don't need to request several missing terms first before they're able to produce valid mzQC files.
	- An autocomplete wizard-like system might be interesting to help people find relevant QC terms. Veit Schwammle has something like this.


## mzQC at conferences

If we want to advertise mzQC at the ASMS conference in June by organizing a workshop we should look into this now, the spring meeting will be too late.

- What is the procedure to organize a workshop? Wout will ask Bill Noble about it.
- Who will be there? Not sure yet.
