# QC working group teleconference 6 April 2022

## Attendees

- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer
- David Jimenez-Morales

Excused:
- Nils Hoffmann
- Wout Bittremieux

---

## mzQC software implementations
- pymzqc is released (`pip install pymzqc`)
- some developments on the R development

## HUPO-PSI Spring Meeting
Mathias presented a tentative meeting schedule (details at the end of the minutes):
  - intro and status update, future of mzQC planning
  - work sessions for (very flexible) 
    - the rest of QC CV migration,
    - documentation improvement (and more public relations),
    - a common test suite
    - develop and test new or improved metrics
  - joint session with MS/PI for CV automation SIG

## Controlled vocabulary
- no movement on the uo issue (breaks reading of PSI-MS)
- offered fix: https://github.com/bio-ontology-research-group/unit-ontology/pull/45
- time to discuss alternatives next call


next call regular time,  20th April

---

@Springmeetingagenda
I think we have three umbrella agenda items:
1. Integration (Show/improve how mzQC can be integrated, work on libs, documentation)
2. Migration (The CV. Finalise migration, review terms, clean-up of documentations)
3. Application (Show/work what our framwork can do: new metrics with showcases, validation, tool co-op,mzQC handover)

@Springmeetingschedule
For the joint session, I would have a suggestion of topic/special-interest-group: work on PSI-CV: CI, unit tests,automation, documentation

And for our QC track, 1st day :
I think we should start with an Introduction, a recapitulation of the format, and a status update of developments. At this point I assume we have 98% of the format and specification 'in the bag'. The remaining two percent are IMO all connected with either the CV or communication (under which I list public review, documentation and web presence, advertisement aka get people involved). So we could follow with a discussion of our public campaign strategy:
* What are individual plans/hopes/suggestions for mzQC?
* Explore synergy opportunities.
* Work on communication: common slide decks?
* Which publications? Get concrete at least for an initial format publication
* Prepare for future workshops, adjust plans for next days' workshops

After these discussions, I hope some clear paths towards our goals make themselves aparent, and will also overlap with what I think are 3 types of workshops/break-outs we could have. I collected items/issues I deem actionable during the meeting, arranged them into three workshops. With the previous discussions we should be able to make schedule adjustment to accomodate the workshops we want and each of us can contribute. (Depending on which are getting interest, which can be in parallel, which outcomes to postpone.)

These are the three workshops I think we could have. Although I think workshop is a bit grand for what time we have. Maybe break-outs or mini-hackathons would be a better description.

Workshop documentation:
* Guide to metric development (what comes after the initial opening of an issue)
* Guide/example to develop new metrics with library integration
* Update github page (connect all markups, sitemap?)

Workshop QC CV migration:
* Discuss metrics to migrate (update definitions, prepare pullrequest)
* Document new/migrate process (i.e. update issue template )
* Visualise our ontology (or at least lay the ground - which hierarchies, concepts, non-QC terms of importance)
* Rules file (for V1.1 - "if this metric then also that metric",  "if this column then that column",...)

Workshop develop set metrics:
* Interaction of sdrf-mzQC and experimental design 'inference' from metrics
* Develop and test metrics on selected datasets
* Explore differences (in mzQC sets) of: timeseries vs. experimental design vs. intermittent QC samples
