# QC working group teleconference 7 September 2022

- Wout Bittremieux
- David Jimenez-Morales
- Mathias Walzer

Excused:

- Chris Bielow
- Nils Hoffman
- Dave Tabb

---

## Software development

- David knows an expert Python programmer (Mihir Samdarshi) at Stanford who could contribute to our software development efforts. A plan could be to develop an mzQC visualization dashboard. Mihir has been invited to Slack, through which development efforts will be coordinated.
- The deadline for the [JPR software special issue](https://axial.acs.org/2022/01/04/call-for-papers-third-special-issue-on-software-tools-and-resources/) is approaching soon. Mathias will start a draft for an application note to introduce the mzQC supporting software packages (pymzqc, rmzqc, jmzqc) and we'll make an effort to still have a manuscript ready on time.

## Specification

The public PSI review phase for the specification document has now ended. If we don't get the feedback soon, Mathias will send a reminder to Sylvie.

## CV

- Mathias has opened a [PR in PSI-MS-CV](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/psi-ms-CV/pull/155) to integrate the new terms that have been discussed recently.
- There are some new CV terms to discuss on Slack.

## Manuscript

Use cases:

- Longitudinal QC evaluation (Mathias)
    - Mathias has received access to an interesting dataset from the QCloud collaborators that contains ~daily QC runs for two instruments over the course of two years.
    - The dataset will also be separately published as a dataset descriptor in Scientific Reports.
    - Mathias is now computing QC values for these runs and exporting to mzQC (by converting from their current qcML data). Some new CV terms will be needed for full mzQC support (tables for TIC chromatogram and injection time).
- Outlier detection (Wout)
    - Wout has presented the workflow for the outlier detection use case. As a second QC metrics generation tool—besides QuaMeter—it was suggested that [QCCalculator](https://github.com/bigbio/qccalculator) (`refactor_QC` branch is most feature-complete) will be more convenient than OpenMS.
