# QC working group teleconference 20 April 2022

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann
- David Jimenez-Morales
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

---

## HUPO-PSI Spring Meeting

Attendance:

- In person: Nils, Dave, Mathias
- Remote: Wout, David JM, Chris, Julian

[Spring meeting agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SqKTx0z_4g1u90RE2ny4oDm6fXIAKJ_yIRfmX9tLotU/edit)

- May 11 (Wed) morning: Opening plenary session.
- May 11 (Wed) afternoon: Joint session with PSI-MS to improve the PSI-MS-CV (unit tests, automation, documentation). Mathias gives introduction about current status of mzQC.
- May 12 (Thu) morning: Improve online documentation ([GitHub](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC), [GitHub pages](https://hupo-psi.github.io/mzQC/)).
- May 12 (Thu) afternoon:
    1. Discuss publication strategy.
    2. Future plans, public visibility.
- May 13 (Fri) morning:
    1. Define set metrics.
    2. Future plans, public visibility.
- May 13 (Fri) afternoon: Wrap-up and closing session.

## Specification document

Two issues to be resolved prior to re-submission of the specification document:

- The Unit Ontology is not actively maintained, and thus issues are not being fixed. Can we replace our UO terms by another ontology (e.g. [OM](https://github.com/HajoRijgersberg/OM))?
- Finalize merging our CV into the PSI-MS CV.

## Software implementations

- Chris and David continue making progress on rmzqc. New PR reviewed and merged by David this week.
