# QC working group teleconference 24 August 2022

- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann
- David Jimenez-Morales
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

Excused:

- Chris Bielow

---

## Software updates

- rmzqc version 1 has been officially released. 🎉 David and Chris will work on future releases with additional functionality.
- Mathias has been working on updates for the validator. The validator will also soon be released as a package on PyPI.

## CV integration

Status: We will open a PR to merge the terms for which we currently have a consensus, rather than wait on multiple terms. Mathias and Wout will finalize discussion of the terms, after which Mathias will open the PR.

## Manuscript

1. Technical paper (application note) to describe the mzQC implementing software.
    - Rather have a combined paper for all implementations (pymzqc, rmzqc, jmzqc) instead of three separate papers. Editors don't like salami publishing, and a single paper will drive convergence in feature sets.
    - Content: (i) functionality of the software packages (side-by-side simple code examples to show the same operation in different programming languages), (ii) show how the software libraries can be used in workflows.
    - Target journal: JPR ([software tools special issue](https://axial.acs.org/2022/01/04/call-for-papers-third-special-issue-on-software-tools-and-resources/) deadline Sept. 30), JOSS (although imited visibility for the community).
2. Main mzQC manuscript.
    - Goal: Define concrete use cases and assign "champions" to each use case. We will check in on progress in two weeks, and hope to have a first draft of the use cases to discuss in four weeks.
    - Use cases:
        1. Outlier detection (Wout & Dave): Show how outlier detection can be easily performed on QC metrics derived from the 120 MTb dataset produced by multiple tools (QuaMeter and OpenMS) in different languages (R and Python) when using mzQC as the common interface.
        2. Cross-experiment analysis (Mathias): Show how the performance of a single instrument (identified by serial number) evolves over its lifetime. Grab historical data from a specific lab (Mathias Mann?) from PRIDE.
        3. Longitudinal analysis (Mathias, Eralp, QCloud): Show how mzQC stores longitudinal data and interfaces with tools (MSStats, QCloud).
        4. Lipidomics (Nils): Use mzQC for non-proteomics quality control. Nils has a targeted human plasma lipidomics dataset for which a heatmap shows clustering of lipid abundance. Contrast clustering before and after abundance normalization, link this to the block design with intermediate QC samples that was used to avoid batch effects.

### Misc

- Chris is on paternity leave until October.
- Dave will be on holiday until September 19.
