# QC working group teleconference 23 February 2022

## Attendees

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffman
- David Jimenez-Morales
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## Software implementations

- R support: Chris & David will meet next week to discuss the R implementation.
- Common test suite across implementations:
    - This should not check tool-specific implementation details for metrics, but rather ensure that the various libraries can correctly read and export mzQC files.
    - Mathias will provide a REST API (based on mzqc-pylib) to provide convenient syntax checking of mzQC files.
    - We will start collecting use cases for semantic validation.
        - See the [mapping file](https://github.com/lifs-tools/jmzTab-m/blob/master/validation/src/main/resources/mappings/mzTab-M-mapping.xml) for semantic validation of mzTab-M files.
        - Different scenarios: set metrics with labels, values with/without FDR filtering, ...
    - The mzqc-pylib reference implementation will contain a full test suite with syntactic and semantic checks, other implementations can provide basic syntactic checking only.
        - [Current Java tests](https://github.com/lifs-tools/jmzqc/blob/main/src/test/java/org/lifstools/jmzqc/MzQCTest.java) check that the example files in the mzQC repository are valid.

## CV integration

The QC term request issue template has been merged into the PSI-MS-CV repository.

CV integration strategy:
1. Review terms in the mzQC repository in separate branches for easy checking.
2. Port evaluated terms in larger PRs to the PSI-MS-CV repository.

Next batch of QC terms to be evaluated: [PR 169](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/pull/169)

- Use consistent terminology "before/after (FDR) filtering".
    - Filtering details (PSM/peptide/protein level filtering, FDR threshold) should be present in the linked identification file (mzIdentML or mzTab preferably), but is also RECOMMENDED to be included in the metadata section as `cvParameter`s.
    - Specify in the use cases that all ID-based metrics should come from the same base data, with a consistent FDR strategy.
    - We should introduce a parent term related to FDR filtering from which all relevant terms are derived. This will facilitate semantic checking: if a term derived from this parent term is present, ideally metadata about FDR filtering should also be present.

Further discussion of these batch of terms will happen via GitHub.

## PSI Spring Meeting

The [PSI Spring Meeting 2022](https://psidev.info/hupo-psi-meeting-2022) will take place in Hinxton, UK on May 11–13. We will have an mzQC session for which we will need to create a schedule.
