# QC working group teleconference 15 June 2022

- Wout Bittremieux
- David Jimenez-Morales
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

Excused:

- Nils Hoffmann
- Dave Tabb

---

## Specification document

The specification document has been resubmitted to the PSI document process.

## mzQC software support

- rmzqc: David will provide a progress update next meeting.

## Website

Mathias has added more content to the website.

- Remove the blog functionality on the front page.
- Three sections on the front page: about the mzQC format (TODO Wout), mzQC resource guide (TODO Mathias), link to specification document.
- Add a page on software availability.
- Move examples and use cases in the `/doc/` folder to the website, where appropriate.
- Move the website to a folder in the `main` branch, rather than in a separate branch.

## mzQC validation

- Mathias has fixed the validation service on the website.
- The pymzqc implementation will be the canonical version of validation, including full semantic validation. Other software libraries might only perform a subset of the validation tasks and don't need to be available through the website.
- There are still a few semantic validation checks that need to be implemented in pymzQC (see [#51](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/issues/51)).
- All implemented semantic checks should be mentioned in the [validation description](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/blob/main/doc/validation.md). This will be moved under the file upload field on the website validation page.

## Controlled vocabulary

There are still some CV terms that need to be moved from the QC CV to the PSI-MS CV. This likely does not have the highest priority, but should be done prior to publication at the latest.
