# QC working group teleconference 9 February 2022

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- David Jimenez-Morales
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

Excused:

- Nils Hoffmann
- Julian Uszkoreit

---

## mzQC software support

- David and Chris will meet (early next week) to discuss mzQC support in R.
- It would be useful to have a consistent test suite to validate the different software implementations (Python, R, Java).
    - mzqc-pylib currently has rudimentary unit tests, but no comprehensive test suite yet.
    - Mathias will share a document in which to collect test cases.
    - Test cases should include all example files on GitHub, including GitHub Actions to make sure that the examples are always valid.
- The website and validator need some work: https://hupo-psi.github.io/mzQC/
    - Although this is currently not the highest priority, it would be useful to have a decent landing page for people who are less familiar with how to browse GitHub.
    - Mathias will expand the current content and add news items.
    - Open invitation for people to have a look at the Jekyll template to make it look nicer.

## Specification document

The [specification document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/132F3MBgDJgtFlXxDZhpJ1oHGbKL8pT6dk9fvL55L5_M/edit) and [response to reviewers](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14mC7sDjPpeg7uFVZSaPv799CgSHqKMmzKuv-rLepuhc/edit) have been updated to reflect the latest (CV-related) changes.

- One minor issue remaining: We need to provide a spectrum-level metrics example that uses USIs and/or nativeIDs to refer to individual spectra.
    - An earlier effort is available in [PR 138](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/pull/138).

Previously proposed external reviewers:

- Eduard Sabido
- Simon Hubbard 
- Sven Nahnsen
- Paul Rudnik 
- Ralf Weber 
- David Broadhurst

Additional proposed external reviewers:

- Stephen Stein
- Richard Unwin
- Brendan Maclean / Panorama AutoQC representative
- Claire O'Donovan (mQACC)

## CV integration

The first batch of terms ([PR 165](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/pull/165)) has now been merged into the PSI-MS CV.

- How to keep an overview of which terms have already been ported? Close PR 165 without merging (otherwise the CV will be overwritten with only the updated terms), create a new PR with the merged terms removed (Wout).
- Start working on the next batch of terms to add to the PSI-MS CV in a separate PR (Mathias). We will focus on (ID-based) metrics calculated by OpenMS.
- We have a detailed CV request template to guide the user in the mzQC repository, whereas the CV request template in the PSI-MS-CV repository is less detailed. We will open a PR to add our template to request CV terms to the PSI-MS-CV repository (Wout).
