# QC working group teleconference 27 July 2022

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

Excused:

- Nils Hoffmann
- David Jimenez-Morales

---

## Software & website update

- Website: Mathias is rewriting the information about the metric request process and how to use them. He will ask for a review soon.
- We should add the material from mzQC conference presentations (i.e. videos for the ASMS 2021 workshop) to the website.
- rmzqc: Chris and David made some more progress on the R implementation. The PR will be merged after David is back from holiday.

## PSI-MS CV integration

- We have started daily discussions about metrics that still need to be ported over to the PSI-MS CV on Slack. Please have a look and provide your comments!
- The updated metrics are added [on a branch in the PSI-MS CV repository](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/psi-ms-CV/blob/newbatchofqcmetricterms/psi-ms.obo ), which will next be used to open a PR.

## Manuscript

- Who to include as authors? Add all the people who have contributed to the working group efforts over the years. Make sure that all co-authors approve the manuscript prior to submission. Mathias will be first/last author (potentially shared with someone else).
- Use cases: QuaMeter, MaxQuant/PTXQC (wide audience; apply MaxQuant to a biomedically relevant dataset).
- It would be useful to have a generic mzQC visualization software tool that can take mzQC files generated by various other tools and provide a simple way of plotting metrics. Mathias might explore creating a basic tool that does this.
- We should include workflows for all use cases so that other people can easily apply the tools to their data.
