# QC working group teleconference 1 June 2022

- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffman
- David Jimenez-Morales
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

Excused:

- Chris Bielow

---

## Software implementations

rmzqc:

- Chris & David are making good progress on the rmzqc implementation. David will review the latest PR in the next few weeks to finish mzQC reading functionality.
- The rmzqc repository has been made public. Thomas Naake has expressed interest in contributing.

Our issues with the Unit Ontology have been resolved:

- Mathias' PR got accepted by the maintainers, as well as movement on other PRs.
- Nevertheless still some concerns about long-term stability and support of UO? Discussions with third-party researchers.

## Specification document

We resolved several comments on the specification document. Thank you Thomas Naake for contributing.

The specification document will be resubmitted to the PSI document process _tomorrow_ after resolving the final small comments.

## Miscellaneous

- Mathias has created a new logo:

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5859205/171421841-1f428ea8-5fa2-41f8-ae03-3b86422370b8.jpg)

- Mathias has created a preliminary [dynamic network visualization of the CV](https://gistpreview.github.io/?cb654ab2f1cfb2c7588dc80fcbecc368).
