# QC working group teleconference 12 January 2022

## Attendees

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann
- David Jimenez-Morales
- Mathias Walzer

---

## PSI-MS-CV merging

[PR ##165](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/pull/165)

- Mathias & Dave have clarified definitions of the QuaMeter metrics.
- Accessions were renumbered to be consecutive.
- The RT duration should refer to chromatography in its definition rather than MS duration. A new MS duration term has been created.

Mathias will open a PR in the PSI-MS-CV repository to start the merging process this week. He will then also resubmit the specification document to the PSI document process.

## mzQC software

What is the current state of mzQC supporting software?

- mzqc-pylib (Python): No recent changes.
- R: Chris and David will work together on an implementation in R, starting from current support in PTXQC (export, no import yet). The discussion will happen on Slack so that other interested developers (e.g. Steffen Neumann) can contribute.
- [jmzqc](https://github.com/lifs-tools/jmzqc) (Java): Core library that supports reading, writing, syntactic validation.

We should compile a set of reference files and examples to create consistent unit tests for all packages. Our current [example files](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/tree/main/doc/examples) could be useful.

## Publication

Two alternative publication strategies possible:

1. Simultaneous companion papers: technical paper to introduce the standard, as well as an application paper to showcase use cases.
2. Higher impact (nmeth?) brief communication / letter to the editor, with bulk of content in the supplementary.
    - In this case demonstrating novelty and impact will be even more essential!
    - We can contact the editor first to inquire whether they are interested.

Crucial elements for the manuscript(s):

- Fully functioning reference implementations in popular programming languages (Python, R, Java).
- mzQC support in various user-friendly tools.
- Strong use cases.
