---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

This is the HUPO-PSI QC workgroup website on mzQC. Find out more about the [format](#mzqc) and the [workgroup](#the-hupo-psi-quality-control-workgroup) below.

# mzQC
mzQC put into context - TBA

Sed ut perspiciatis, unde omnis iste natus error sit voluptatem accusantium 
doloremque laudantium, totam rem aperiam eaque ipsa, quae ab illo inventore 
veritatis et quasi architecto beatae vitae dicta sunt, explicabo. Nemo enim 
ipsam voluptatem, quia voluptas sit, aspernatur aut odit aut fugit, sed quia 
consequuntur magni dolores eos, qui ratione voluptatem sequi nesciunt, neque 
porro quisquam est, qui dolorem ipsum, quia dolor sit amet consectetur 
adipisci[ng] velit, sed quia non numquam [do] eius modi tempora inci[di]dunt, 
ut labore et dolore magnam aliquam quaerat voluptatem. Ut enim ad minima 
veniam, quis nostrum[d] exercitationem ullam corporis suscipit laboriosam, nisi 
ut aliquid ex ea commodi consequatur? [D]Quis autem vel eum iure reprehenderit, 
qui in ea voluptate velit esse, quam nihil molestiae consequatur, vel illum, 
qui dolorem eum fugiat, quo voluptas nulla pariatur? [33] At vero eos et 
accusamus et iusto odio dignissimos ducimus, qui blanditiis praesentium 
voluptatum deleniti atque corrupti, quos dolores et quas molestias excepturi 
sint, obcaecati cupiditate non provident, similique sunt in culpa, qui officia 
deserunt mollitia animi, id est laborum et dolorum fuga. Et harum quidem rerum 
facilis est et expedita distinctio. Nam libero tempore, cum soluta nobis est 
eligendi optio, cumque nihil impedit, quo minus id, quod maxime placeat, facere 
possimus, omnis voluptas assumenda est, omnis dolor repellendus. Temporibus 
autem quibusdam et aut officiis debitis aut rerum necessitatibus saepe eveniet, 
ut et voluptates repudiandae sint et molestiae non recusandae. Itaque earum 
rerum hic tenetur a sapiente delectus, ut aut reiciendis voluptatibus maiores 
alias consequatur aut perferendis doloribus asperiores repellat.

But I must explain to you how all this mistaken idea of reprobating pleasure 
and extolling pain arose. To do so, I will give you a complete account of the 
system, and expound the actual teachings of the great explorer of the truth, 
the master-builder of human happiness. No one rejects, dislikes or avoids 
pleasure itself, because it is pleasure, but because those who do not know how 
to pursue pleasure rationally encounter consequences that are extremely 
painful. Nor again is there anyone who loves or pursues or desires to obtain 
pain of itself, because it is pain, but occasionally circumstances occur in 
which toil and pain can procure him some great pleasure. To take a trivial 
example, which of us ever undertakes laborious physical exercise, except to 
obtain some advantage from it? But who has any right to find fault with a man 
who chooses to enjoy a pleasure that has no annoying consequences, or one who 
avoids a pain that produces no resultant pleasure? [33] On the other hand, we 
denounce with righteous indignation and dislike men who are so beguiled and 
demoralized by the charms of pleasure of the moment, so blinded by desire, that 
they cannot foresee the pain and trouble that are bound to ensue; and equal 
blame belongs to those who fail in their duty through weakness of will, which 
is the same as saying through shrinking from toil and pain. These cases are 
perfectly simple and easy to distinguish. In a free hour, when our power of 
choice is untrammeled and when nothing prevents our being able to do what we 
like best, every pleasure is to be welcomed and every pain avoided. But in 
certain circumstances and owing to the claims of duty or the obligations of 
business it will frequently occur that pleasures have to be repudiated and 
annoyances accepted. The wise man therefore always holds in these matters to 
this principle of selection: he rejects pleasures to secure other greater 
pleasures, or else he endures pains to avoid worse pains.


# The HUPO-PSI Quality Control workgroup

The Human Proteome Organisation (HUPO) Proteomics Standards Initiative (PSI) defines community standards for data representation in biological mass spectrometry to facilitate data comparison, exchange, and verification. The Quality Control (QC) Working Group develops standards and recommendations to describe the quality of mass spectrometry data and related analysis results.

The current projects of the QC working group are:

- mzQC: A standard file format for the exchange, transmission, and archiving of quality metrics derived from biological mass spectrometry.
- QC CV: A controlled vocabulary to represent terms for the definition of quality metrics and related supporting values. Subset to MS CV.
