# QC working group teleconference 15 September 2017

## Attendants

- Wout Bittremieux
- Dave Tabb
- Stefan Tenzer
- Mathias Walzer

---

## EuBIC developer's meeting

- The EuBIC developer's meeting (9-12 January 2018, Ghent) will feature a hackathon during which bioinformaticians will actively work on selected projects.
- There is community interest in a QC topic, so we should propose a project.
- Dave recommended a project to develop a GUI tool to visualize longitudinal QC metrics and perform statistical analyses (Hotelling's T-squared statistic, robust PCA). Mathias has [submitted the proposal](https://github.com/eubic/eubic18/issues/5) and will take the lead on this effort.
- *Show your support* on GitHub to maximize the chances that this project will be included in the meeting's program.
- People from Stefan's group will also attend the meeting with a topic on label-free quantification.

## HUPO conference

- Dave has sent a short overview slide to Eric Deutsch for inclusion into his general PSI talk to summarize our current status.

## XML format

- Discussion on some of the [points Wout raised previously](https://gist.github.com/bittremieux/402c6ef08da1bba0a9495c2b0777eefc).
    - It is preferred to have a `cvParam` child under `FileFormat` for consistency.
    - The `ExternalFormatDocumentation` element was modeled after mzIdentML, but doesn't seem relevant for our needs. This will be removed.
- In general there are no rules for PSI cross-format compatibility, we have to figure out what works best for us.
- Mathias & Wout will further discuss these issues in more detail.

## Miscellaneous

- Wout will move to the University of Washington in Seattle, and due to the time zone difference it will be hard for him to join future calls. As it will be difficult to include people in the US, Europe/South Africa, and China in a call at the same time, we might consider having an alternating schedule to have people in the US participate one month and people in Asia the next month. We should set up a Doodle to check which times might work and discuss this during the next call.