# QC working group teleconference 19 May 2017

## Attendants

- Wout Bittremieux
- Jinmeng Jia
- Reza Salek
- Dave Tabb
- Stefan Tenzer
- Mathias Walzer
- Weimin Zhu

---

# Controlled vocabulary & MIAPE-QC

- Martin mailed an initial version of the new obo file which includes some of the new metrics that have been proposed and is backwards compatible to the previous metrics already in the repository.
- Jinmeng has noticed a few inconsistencies in this obo file and will communicate with Martin to get those fixed.
- There is also an updated version of the MIAPE-QC information which so far has been circulating locally in China. Jinmeng will make a first attempt at separating the minimal metrics and those that require subjective computation from this list. MIAPE-QC should only include those metrics that can be computed directly without any ambiguity.
- MIAPE is currently in transition, it will be discussed in further detail in upcoming meetings.
- Mathias will add Martin's obo file to Github where feedback can be provided (issues, pull requests).

# Metrics hierarchy

NIST has categorized their metrics according to a hierarchy, will we use a similar approach?

- This is useful information for QC metrics developers to describe the metrics.
- _But_ we don't want to enforce restrictive metrics categories, for example SRM metrics don't fit the NIST categories.
- Instead we will use metrics categories if these are provided by their respective developers, but this won't be a hard requirement.
- We will refrain from providing a comprehensive definition of metrics categories as this is too hard. Instead we will define categories for the current metrics to demonstrate best practices for other metrics developers. The used categories will be by no means fixed but will function as a template for further additions.
- We need a visual representation of this information for easy interpretability.

# Metrics implementation

- Initial tools implementing qcML will be: OpenMS, QuaMeter, jqcML/iMonDB.
- Dave will have a graduate student soon(ish) to add qcML support to QuaMeter, Mathias is working on OpenMS, Wout is working on jqcML/iMonDB.
- These developers will take a look at the current CV and determine whether it suffices to cover all of their use cases.
- Mathias & Wout will create representative example qcML files for OpenMS and ofiMonDB.
- We need to communicate with external developers to see whether their use cases fit into our framework as well. People we'll want to approach (in a somewhat later stage):
    * Meena Choi: MSstats developer & organizes the ASMS bioinformatics interest group
    * Michael Bereman: SProCoP and Panorama AutoQC developer & organized last year's ASMS LC-MS QC tracking workshop
    * Karl Mechtler: SimpatiQCo
    * Karl Clauser: QC iTRAQ statistics in SpectrumMill
    * Eduard Sabido: QCloud developer; will present it at ASMS
    * Metabolomics outreach: Rick Dunn (Birmingham) & David Broadhurst (Australia)
    
# Conference attendance

- People at ASMS: Dave, Wout, Stefan
- People at Metabolomics Society: Reza
- People at HUPO: Weimin, Stefan
- We will connect with other people at ASMS (e.g. QCloud presentation/poster, MSstatsQC poster).
- Next year's ASMS/HUPO we should aim for an oral presentation and/or workshop. It will be too soon to have sufficient content for this year's HUPO, Weimin will already contact them to find out which opportunities there are. A workshop organisation will probably be discussed in full detail during next year's PSI meeting.

---

# Action points

- Jinmeng & Martin: synchronize the CV
- Jinmeng: extract minimal metrics for MIAPE-QC
- Mathias: add the latest CV to Github
- Mathias: add the latest qcML schema to Github (currently only an empty folder)
- Mathias & Wout: prepare example qcML files for OpenMS/iMonDB
