# QC working group teleconference 14 December 2017

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Cristina Chiva
- Jinmeng Jia
- Roger Olivella
- Eduard Sabido
- Dave Tabb
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## Barcelona

Cristina, Roger & Eduard from the CRG in Barcelona joined the call.

What are their interests in QC? They have developed QCloud = an automated tool to control instrument performance.

- Track NIST metrics (OpenMS implementation) in the qcML format, store this in a MySQL database, and visualize it in an online tool.
- Desire to use open standards.
- Source files for QC metrics: qcML, mzML, featureXML.
- This system is running for more than 50 instruments (mainly Q-Exactive and Fusion) all over Europe!

## CV updates

What is the status of the CV in moving towards a 1.0 version? Martin hasn't participated in the latest calls, Julian will ask him for an update.

## XML schema updates

Our goal is to identify the necessary changes to move towards a 1.0 version. A few GitHub issues have been opened to discuss outstanding questions ([#34](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/qcML-development/issues/34), [#35](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/qcML-development/issues/35), [#36](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/qcML-development/issues/36)).

### Provenance

- The `MetaDataParameter` element is currently used to record information about previous files in the processing workflow. As this is not the best or most descriptive element for this task, the element will be removed or renamed.
- The `MetaDataParameter` currently supports a limited form of provenance in linking to previous files such as raw files, identification files, and quantification files. This has mainly been copied from other standards.
- [Issue #34](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/qcML-development/issues/34): There are multiple entry points for "raw files" as these refer to any previous file in the processing workflow and can include actual raw files, mzML, identifications files, ... It is important to capture all of these sources!
- Currently there is no link between specific raw files and the metrics that were computed based on these files. We will add a reference to the ID of the raw file for each metric.

What information should be stored directly in a qcML file and what information should be left in secondary sources?

- Should we duplicate information from secondary sources? For example: the database name used for identification is stored in mzIdentML files. Do we expect users to consult the mzIdentML file if they want to know this information, or should we explicitly specify it in the qcML file as well for easy access?
- Minimum information in the qcML file would be convenient to simplify pipelines by not having to keep track of (all) prior files.
- Some examples given for this minimum information: database, species, source (Uniprot), date.
- We should carefully collect and explicitly specify which minimum information we want to store.
- Minimum information will be specified using CV terms rather than as XML elements. This is more flexible with better support for backwards compatibility if the requirements change in the future. As a consequence validation of the minimum information will have to be performed externally (semantic validation) besides the XML schema validation (syntactic validation).

**Important!** We should have an open document to catalogue information and considerations that are important for us _and_ for the implementers.

## EuBIC meeting

There will be a [QC project](http://uahost.uantwerpen.be/eubic18/hackathon-dashboard.html) at the [EuBIC developer's meeting](http://uahost.uantwerpen.be/eubic18/) in Ghent in January 2018.

- Mathias has converted some files to open formats from the relevant datasets.
- Mathias will provide a cloud solution which will be accessible to the hackathon participants.
- Roger & Wout will introduce their metrics-producing tools: QCloud & iMonDB
    - Mathias is interested to learn how to access the iMonDB values.
- Which programming language will be used?
    - Mostly R, Javascript, Python, Python/C++ for OpenMS.
    - We will use Kubernetes. This is a container-based system so each individual functionality stands on its own and could potentially be implemented in any language.
- Is the current qcML version suitable for the work to be done at the EuBIC meeting? The current version is still undergoing significant changes, we can make use of the older versions.
- The project will exclusively use qcML as interchange format for QC metrics, as its goal is to show the added value of qcML! Nevertheless, we will use good software engineering principles such as loose coupling.
- The Barcelona crew will share a list of parameters they currently record and we will try to include them in an intermediate CV to use those definitions for the workshop.

## Telco schedule

The new schedule for our monthly teleconferences will be the third Thursday of the month at 15:00 GMT, which seems to fit people on four continents reasonably well. A notification will be sent out on the mailing list prior to each teleconference.
