# QC working group teleconference 20 July 2017

## Attendants

- Wout Bittremieux
- Martin Eisenacher
- Reza Salek
- Dave Tabb
- Stefan Tenzer
- Julian Uszkoreit

---

## Coordination between CV and MIAPE-QC

As discussed during the previous teleconference Martin will get in touch with Jinmeng and Pierre-Alain to coordinate the CV and MIAPE-QC.

- Currently the MIAPE-QC is still too extensive. It should be _minimal_, ideally only metrics that are directly observable from the raw data should be included. Pierre-Alain's experience as MIAPE coordinator will be useful to reduce the MIAPE-QC.
- Martin has added several of Jinmeng's metrics to the CV. They are currently prefixed 'Jinmeng' although this will likely change in the future. The updated CV is available in pull request #31.

## Application of qcML

Currently we are still mainly focused on shotgun proteomics, but we need to take other applications into account as well:

- Many current metrics are relevant to DIA as well, but there we need additional specialized metrics. There will also be important differences between the various vendors. Stefan will evaluate which QC metrics can be useful for DIA.
- For quantitative proteomics it would be highly relevant to get input from Meena Choi.
- Reza will check existing metabolomics QC tools whether they report a list of QC metrics and whether (some of) these are currently still missing from the CV.

So far there is limited formal documentation of use cases. Martin has added an older document with some information on this to pull request #31. We will have to extend this in the future to show how qcML can fit within existing tools and how it is advantageous in doing QC within a run and across samples.

## iMonDB example qcML file

Wout created a limited example qcML file containing iMonDB data which was circulated via email.

- iMonDB stores summary statistic for each instrument parameter. The current approach using JSON to encode this in a single qualityParameter seems good.
    - Semantic checking based on the CV will happen externally. This has not been discussed yet for the moment.
- Wout suggested to have a general CV term for any instrument parameter, as he typically does not do any interpretation of the metrics and there are 100s separate metrics for each different instrument model.
    - However, this makes it impossible to compare metrics across different qcML files, for which an explicit and unambiguous definition in the CV is required.
    - Wout will make a list of all possible instrument metrics and try to generalize these over multiple instrument models where possible. This will be communicated with Martin to be included in the CV.

## Miscellaneous

### Metabolomics conference Brisbane

- Interesting tool by Jan Stranstrup for the real-time quality assessment of metabolomics LC-MS runs ([GitHub](https://github.com/stanstrup/QC4Metabolomics)). Jan is interested to be involved in the working group.
- Other interesting QC tools for metabolomics:
    - [MetaboQC](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0039914017306033): correction of untargeted metabolomics data.
    - [QcScreen](https://bmcbioinformatics.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12859-015-0783-x): metabolomics data quality control.

### General HUPO-PSI

- There is currently a manuscript in revision detailing the standards developed by the HUPO-PSI in the past 15 years. Dave has emphasized the work on qcML.
- Dave has emailed Eric Deutsch to contribute a few slides to represent the qcML work at the upcoming HUPO conference.
