# QC working group teleconference 13 November 2017

## Attendants

- Wout Bittremieux
- Jinmeng Jia
- Reza Salek
- Dave Tabb
- Stefan Tenzer
- Mathias Walzer

---

## qcML schema

Current issues with the qcML schema that have to be solved to move towards a 1.0 version:

- What information should be captured about the raw files that were used as input to generate the qcML file? E.g. checksum, ...
- How do we encode the case when multiple raw files are needed/used to generate QC information? E.g. a single MudPIT experiment results in multiple files from different fractions.
- **Important discussion point:** How to store multiple values for a single quality metric?
    - Based on previous discussions, the preferred way to encode this is using a JSON list. In this case the number of items in the list is implicit and should be specified explicitly in the CV. An alternative option would be to use `key: value` pairs to enforce more structure.
    - As JSON is very flexible there are multiple ways to encode this, we should settle on a recommended approach and document this.
    - The XML schema can't enforce a specific number of values, validation will have to be done externally.
    - We should be mindful of the distinction between machine readable and machine interpretable. The qcML format specifies how the information can be read by defining what values are permissible, its interpretation is a task for the authors of QC software.
    - Several different options will confuse and frustrate QC tool developers. We should settle on a single accepted way to do this. E.g. the [Zen of Python](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0020/):
    > There should be one-- and preferably only one --obvious way to do it.

### Action points

We should describe some use cases and show how the qcML standard applies to them.

- Dave's material for the ClinProt 2017 workshop on quality control ([email exchange](https://sourceforge.net/p/psidev/mailman/message/36081195/)) and related publication by Slebos et al. ([10.1038/sdata.2015.22](http://www.nature.com/articles/sdata201522)) could be one of those use case. It illustrates how a hierarchy is needed to represent QC information at various levels.

## CV

What changes does the CV need to move towards a 1.0 version? Briefly mentioned that this can't be seen separate from the qcML schema, although not discussed in further detail.


## MIAPE

Jinmeng shared a [new version](https://github.com/Jinmeng-QC/MIAPE-QC/blob/master/MIAPE_QC_draft.xlsx) of MIAPE-QC based on her discussions with experts at the Phoenix Center.

- Added information related to biological and technical replicates.
- How to represent the experimental strategy?
    - Different people might (not) consider something an individual step, depending on the task's complexity and their experience.
    - How detailed should this be? E.g. are micro spray and nano spray different strategies?
    - Predefining strategies is too restrictive; new strategies might be used in the future, by other labs, or in other mass spectrometry domains (metabolomics, lipidomics). &rightarrow; The strategy should probably not have to be specified using very restrictive terms, but rather without the CV.
    - The experimental strategy can typically not be directly derived from the raw files, so QC software might even not be able to provide this information.
    - Otoh, this information can be very valuable, i.e. the strategy can be the cause of hidden batch effects.
    - Currently this is only recorded in (non-digital) lab notebooks, it would be useful to have this information in qcML files as well. Simultaneously we shouldn't force people from having to provide this information as it will deter them from using the qcML format.

- It could be useful to look into design choices of other formats and sync with other groups:
    - [MIAPE Quant](http://www.psidev.info/miape-quant-1.0) shows how to describe hierarchies.
    - The [ISA model](https://isa-specs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/isamodel.html) uses assays as basic units instead of raw files.
    
### Action points

Reza will take a look at the MIAPE Excel file and add information that is relevant for metabolomics.

## EuBIC meeting

There will be a QC project at the [EuBIC developer's meeting](http://uahost.uantwerpen.be/eubic18/) in Ghent in January 2018.

- So far about 10 people have registered for the QC track, so we can introduce new people to our working group. Mathias has also invited some colleagues from Barcelona and Tübingen.
- Mathias has been doing some technical preparation for the meeting's hackathon. He will ask for contributions through the mailing list.

## Publication strategy & timeline

Will we seek a separate publication for MIAPE-QC or include it in the general qcML publication?

- The qcML publication would be the first step, MIAPE-QC would have to be published afterwards.
- Jinmeng: MIAPE-QC could stand on its own, depending on how fast we progress considering PhD constraints it could also be included within the qcML publication.

Our desired timeline at this point would be:

1. Have a draft 1.0 version ready prior to the EuBIC meeting in January 2018, as there we will build software based on the qcML specification.
2. Identify the final issues with this draft 1.0 version at the upcoming PSI meeting in the spring of 2018.
3. Finalize the format and prepare a publication during the summer of 2018.

## Teleconference scheduling

As we now have working group people on four different continents we changed the teleconference's timing to Thursday's at 15h00 GMT. Our next teleconference will be **Thursday December 14, 2017 at 15h00 GMT**.
