# QC working group teleconference 16 June 2017

## Attendants

- Wout Bittremieux
- Martin Eisenacher
- Jinmeng Jia
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

---

## Controlled vocabulary

- The Excel file Martin has circulated contains all new metrics implemented in OpenMS, the NIST metrics, the metrics proposed in his [viewpoint article](http://doi.wiley.com/10.1002/pmic.201000441) from 2011, and the metrics proposed at the HUPO-PSI meeting 2016 in Ghent.
- Martin will maintain this Excel file next to the OBO for human readability.
    - Currently still missing are some of the metrics from the MIAPE-QC document
    - Highlighted in green = metrics that have been fully integrated (QuaMeter metrics, viewpoint article, some from NIST)
    - Highlighted in yellow = some outstanding questions
- Some questions related to the representation of the metrics.
    - Categorization of the metrics can lead to ambiguities. For example: belongs MS1-Freq-Max to MS1 metrics or dynamic sampling metrics?
    - Some metrics measured at multiple quantiles are currently split up in several different metrics instead of a single metric that takes multiple values. Martin will change these inconsistencies in the Excel file.
    - We won't explicitly add Q1-Q4 (for quartiles for example) to the metric name anymore, instead the number of quantiles will be derived from the number of values the metric takes. Metrics denoting quartile changes contain three values, so to prevent incorrect interpretation an `NaN` will be added as first element.
    - There were some questions regarding the naming scheme used by Mathias. For example, the MS2-Freq-Max metric from QuaMeter has code DS-5C. These codes are specified in the descriptions in the OBO file, as suggested by Eric Deutsch. For new metrics Mathias used a similar coding scheme as NIST did. On the other hand such codes won't be mandatory for new metrics to not be overly restrictive.
- Individual metrics can have a specified schema value type, e.g. `xsd:float`, but it is not possible to model complex values in the schema like this. JSON is flexible to handle this though, and validation of the complex value types will happen at a higher level.

## MIAPE-QC

- As per Martin's suggestion an abstract was written as starting point of the MIAPE-QC specification.
- The current classification scheme consists of 4 major categories (general features, input data, processing, output data) and 9 subcategories. There was a consensus for the 4 major categories, although the subcategories might have to be revised.
- The current MIAPE-QC list is very comprehensive and technically detailed. We need to evaluate if all this information is truly essential, as the main point of the MIAPE-QC data is that it is intended for humans. Minimal information should be directly and unambiguously derivable from the data.
- We will discuss this issue and how to link the MIAPE-QC to other PSI CVs with Pierre-Alain Binz, MIAPE coordinator for the PSI.
- Martin will add missing metrics from the MIAPE-QC list to the CV.
- Difference between the CV and the MIAPE-QC: the CV terms are specific to individual tools (i.e. tool name specified in the metric name) while the MIAPE-QC will be more general.


## Example files

- Mathias is creating an OpenMS example qcML file.
- Wout is creating an iMonDB example qcML file.
    - The iMonDB metrics consist of summary statistics (mean, median, std, min, max, ...) over the course of a run; how to represent this type of data?
        - Either an n-tuple with the values in a fixed order.
        - Or several distinct metrics for each part of the summary statistics but logically assembled under one common CV term.

## Conference updates

### ASMS

- Dave talked to the ABRF who are making a new push into experimental QC. Dave will coordinate with them to make sure we are not working at cross purposes and will work on webinars for them.
- Eduard Sabido presented his QCloud system. They reuse other tools such as OpenMS, and they deliberately try to be as standard as possible. They might be interested in becoming involved in the working group.
- The MSstatsQC package was presented as a poster by Eralp Doglu and Meena Choi.
- EuBIC will organize a hackaton in early 2018 where QC will be one of the use cases. More information to follow.

### HUPO

- WG people attending HUPO: Stefan, Weimin
- Dave will communicate with Eric Deutsch to try to contribute a few slides to the general HUPO-PSI talk.

## Other

- Draft dates for the HUPO-PSI 2018 meeting are April 18-20.
