# QC working group teleconference 17 May 2018

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Jinmeng Jia
- Reza Salek
- Dave Tabb
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## XML vs JSON

Currently we mix JSON content within an XML file. Does it make sense to switch to a full JSON format instead?

### Arguments pro JSON

- **Important:** Easy parsers in various programming languages because of built-in JSON support. This is typically not the case for XML, for example, the jqcML parsing library for the old qcML format is somewhat complex.
- Flexible: the code that produced Mathias's example was written in only about an hour.
- It's easier to represent sequences and arrays of values in JSON than in XML. This is exactly why we started embedding JSON snippets in XML files.
- JSON is ideally suited for small files, such as we deal with. XML is more suitable for large files (i.e. mzML, ...).

### Arguments against JSON

- XML has strong support for (syntactic) validation via XML Schema. We need to make sure we can do the same validation of our JSON files.
- No explicit native support for comments in JSON. We can add comments as data elements, but should settle on a fixed way to encode comments.
- We have to make sure the format remains general through a link with the CV.
- Historically the PSI has preferred XML-based formats. However, this is no longer exclusively the case, see for example mzTab.

### How to represent QC data in JSON?

- We were representing the metric values in JSON already, this remains the same.
- Learn from our experience developing the XML standard to this point. This isn't a wasted effort! Similar lessons are relevant for JSON.
- Important discussion in Heidelberg on how to represent 2D/3D information. Use the proposed JSON solution.

### How to validate JSON files?

- Important to make the distinction between syntactic and semantic validation.
- XML Schema is useful for syntactic validation. We need to check which similar validation methods exist for JSON.
- Semantic validation should be easier because it's possible to programmatically access all data elements. In contrast, in the XML-JSON hybrid the JSON strings are a black box for the XML scaffold.

### Transfer from hybrid to JSON

- **TODO:** Convert the existing sample files to JSON examples.
    - Describe your thought process while converting the files from XML to JSON. This is useful information for the semantic validation.
    - Problems identified in Heidelberg preventing fully compliant qcML files: metric definitions missing from the CV. Solution: communicate all new metrics to Julian, he will add them to the CV.
- We have some existing code snippets that can easily be repurposed.
- We need a new name for the format: qcDIF (QC Data Interchange Format) / qcStream / ... ?

How to communicate this change to people outside the working group?

- We don't want to seem indecisive to them. Make sure the format is solid first.
- We don't want to give people that already support qcML a lot of work.
    - Not that many tools from outside people really support qcML yet.
    - They will be able to reuse part of their codebase.
    - They will be happy by the reduced code complexity.

## MIAPE-QC: 

Jinmeng has prepared an example MIAPE-QC paragraph: 

> A set of [sample description: XXX human urine samples] was analyzed by UPLC-TOF MS in a single instrument run following the [QC protocol: protocol XXX (add reference)]. The QC procedure was applied for [purpose: assessing the validity of the data from an analytical standpoint.] Analysis was performed using an [instruments &manufacturer:Acquity UPLC system (Waters, Elstree, UK), connected to an LCT Premier Time of Flight (ToF) mass spectrometer (Waters Micromass)], using an [ion source: electrospray ion- ization (ESI) source.] The analysis was performed in [ionization mode:positive (ESI+) mode]. Data were recorded for the [m/z region: m/z region of 50–1000 in V-mode] with a [scan time: scan time of 0.20s] and [dwell time: dwell time of 0.01s] between scans. 
[chromatographic separation:Chromatographic separation was performed on an Acquity UPLC HSS T3C18 (1.8 m, 2.1mm×100mm) column, at 40◦C.] [injection volume:The injection volume was 5 L.] [replicates: The samples were analyzed in random order and QC samples were analyzed every XX samples.Run the QC sample a minimum of 5.] The batch comprised XXX (total sample number) analyses with XX conditioning QC samples injected at the beginning and XX QC samples placed regularly in between samples. [batch duration: The duration of the analytical batch was 45h.] Samples were kept at 4◦.

- Is this information detailed enough for the MIAPE-QC?
- Some of the metrics are currently missing from the CV.
- A manuscript is inherently less precise than a qcML file. It's important to keep in mind that the MIAPE-QC guidelines are separate from the qcML format.
- A MIAPE-QC paragraph can contain both qualitative (i.e. how was carbamylation handled?) and quantitative (what fraction of MS2 spectra were identified) information.

### Action points

- Jinmeng will update the MIAPE-QC paragraph based on the feedback during the call.
- Dave is putting some recommendations in writing. He's currently finetuning this document based on feedback from Henning.

## Agenda items next month

- Evaluate the draft qcDIF example files
- Summary of presentations and posters relevant for QC at the upcoming ASMS conference
    - Dave & Wout will attend
