# QC working group teleconference 19/7/2018

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Jinmeng Jia
- Reza Salek
- Dave Tabb
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

agenda items:

- More JSON. Please have a look at Dave's recent draft mzQC JSON file. I will still try to provide an initial version of a JSON schema file for validation purposes, but I have a pretty busy week ahead of me so I'm not making any promises.
  
  * missing CV terms and the mode of CV curation (github issue) and whether to build a release candidate from scratch/examples of basing on the existing
  * software CVs may need TLC if given software can operate in different modes and the mode is decisive for the interpretation of metrics reported.
  
- MIAPE-QC: Depending on the people that manage to attend the call it would be relevant to address the MIAPE-QC recommendations to construct a paragraph based on Dave's written feedback.

  * in fulltext document MIAPE-QC: we discussed the importance to provide information on the followed protocol/SOP; 
  'citing' protocols may be a pitfall as some are not published, others are in-house protocols and might be considered the secret recipe and therefore just referred as an institution to be accpeted as fact for the reader.
  whereas explicit reiteration of the protocol itself in the QC document might go beyond its scope and length limits - cite vs. explicit give info
  next to a template to follow for such a fulltext QC documentation it might be an idea to have suggestion(s) of best citing/stating practices. (already exisiting?)
  
  
* action item for Mathias: provide set qc term metrics json example (e.g. RT variabilityfor petides)
