# QC working group teleconference 16 May 2019

## Attendees

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Stefan Tenzer
- Mathias Walzer

---

## Move to version 1.0

- [x] Support for multiple units has been added to the JSON schema. Single-value metrics or metrics with multiple values of the same unit should be specified as previously with a single unit. Tabular metrics with different units per column should specify the unit for each column in an array. This needs to be [verified by the semantic validator](https://github.com/bittremieux/pymzqc/issues/7).
- [] [Open pull request](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/pull/65).
	- Do we need to include the unit ontology in our repository directly? No, just refer to its origin in the mzQC files. Otherwise it might get out of date, ... Custom ontologies can always be used in the mzQC files, these don't all need to be available in our repository.
	- **TODO:** Get Julian's feedback, remove the UO from the pull request, merge.
- [] Mathias is working on a 10 minute guide to mzQC.

## mzQC support in PTXQC

Chris Bielow, developer of [PTXQC](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acs.jproteome.5b00780), joined the call after having discussed mzQC with Timo at the OpenMS developers meeting.

Some of his thoughts on the mzQC format:

- It's better to have a single, latest, version of the format on GitHub, rather than also having the folders with the older versions, as is the case at the moment. This way users will only see the correct version. Older versions can be indicated using tags in GitHub.
- There are some invalid example files available for the latest schema version (file names including "broken"). Mathias added those to test the CI, but it's better to only have valid examples to show how mzQC should be used properly.
- Should we split the (static) file format and (more flexible) CV into two separate repositories? No, not necessary.
- Is there enough information available in the mzQC files to do metric-agnostic plotting? Yes, by combining values from the mzQC files and definitions from the CV this is possible.
- Some duplication of information (for example, CV accession and name) can lead to file bloat. Can this become an issue when longitudinal metrics over hundreds of files are stored in a single mzQC file? We are confident that parsers in popular programming languages should still be to handle such files.
