# QC working group teleconference 17 January 2019

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Reza Salek
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

---

Preparation for the Spring Meeting:

## MIAPE-QC

Jinmeng won't be able to attend the Spring meeting, she will send a MIAPE-QC specification document for us to work on.


## CV

TODO:

- We need more entries, consistency, guidance.
- We need to provide an issue template on GitHub to guide CV requests and specify all required information.
	- [Example of a complete CV request](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/issues/52).

Discussion:

- How verbose should the metric names be? For example, should each QuaMeter metric have the form "QuaMeter-IDFree-..." or not?
- How should we encode the relationship between metrics and tools? At the moment this is implicit through the naming scheme. Alternatively we can make it explicit, although this might lead to problems when adding new metrics or implementations in the future.
- We should try to make it as easy as possible for mzQC writers.
- Currently there is no link between QC CV entries and MS CV entries. For example, the MS2 Count metric could inclued a reference to the CV term for an MS2 spectrum in the PSI-MS CV.


## Spring meeting agenda

Preliminary agenda is available [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1XvMuEKzRGl5MCA0c6SUo82xnWTyO9Zjd4xOKIVKfCO8/edit).

## Tasks

- Wout: provide an example of 2D metrics.
- Everyone: Look at the documentation process prior to the Spring Meeting.
- Everyone: Try to finalize the mzQC schema as much as possible prior to the meeting.

Teleconference February: go through examples for the mzQC schema, try to cover all possible use cases.
