# QC working group teleconference 15 January 2020

## Attendees

- Chris Bielow
- Reza Salek
- Dave Tabb
- Julian Uzkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## Specification document
Mathias recapitulated the current state of the specification document and included updates. *Section 6.2* `CvParameter Values for Metrics` 
is the one remaining blank section and is closely related to the other open issue of the agenda: creating examples. 

Positioning and mode of editing for further additions was briefly brokered to [google docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/132F3MBgDJgtFlXxDZhpJ1oHGbKL8pT6dk9fvL55L5_M/edit?usp=sharing)

We discussed the need to define where and in which precedence we should source metrics and definitions (different ontologies).
This should probably be contained in the specification document in all brevity but more instructive in a separate document. 

We will probably need a separate document for how to approach new CV term entries and understand for different Audiences. 
Also, we need to reference this in the spec doc, where we would lay out the desired structure of the CV 
(like mentioning the interpretation aide in comments) .

Dave noted that we either need to mention encoding specifics in the json section of the spec doc or in a nontechnical person's guide. 

## Our qc ontology
Julian introduced the new [CV term request template through github issues](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/blob/master/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/request-for-new-cv-entry.md)
It was noted that there are some long open term requests that need clarification by the requester. 
All agreed that we need more metric definitions in the vocabulary to properly test if the set of cvparameter values (list, table, matrix) we have defined in the spec doc are sufficient.
Which implies real world examples, too. 

We will need to evaluate if we need some fusion document between the spec doc and the CV howto. 

Reza added for consideration that it would be optimal to have QC tool output from metabolomics, but we might not get such. 
Next best thing would be to get a QC matrix from a metabolights submission. Reza to see if we can acquire such. 

Further, we discussed how we would benefit from a software list. 
Chris suggested that would be best in our GitHub repository for maintenance simplicity.

---

* Actionpoint all: consider which additional documents we need given the discussed needs for more documentation without 
scattering the documentation too far.
* Actionpoint all: please add yourselves (+ affil.) to the author list of the specification document if you whish so
* Actionpoint Reza: try to acquire a QC matrix from a metabolights submission for translation into mzQC. 
* Actionpoint Dave: read and comment specdoc on Jan. 21st 
* Actionpoint Dave: to put forward a dataset with outliers which we can use to produce mzQc from all available software 
* Actionpoint Chris: Chris to init and document how to maintain a software list on our GitHub (PR and all) 
* Actionpoint Mathias: Improve the cv term requests

---

Next telco will take place on 12th Feb. 2020

 
