# HUPO-PSI Digital Meeting 23–26 March 2020

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Paul Brack
- Reza Salek
- Simonas Savickas
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

---

## Companion documents

Multiple documents with differing complexity so users can easily find relevant information at their level.

### 5 minute guide to mzQC

[5 minutes guide to mzQC](https://github.com/bigbio/mzqc-pylib/blob/master/jupyter/MZQC_in_5_minutes.ipynb)

- Mathias ran us through the example. Currently it's using a PSM file from the Percolator repository and delta mass histogram as metric.
- People might relate better to a published dataset and metrics that are a bit easier to understand.
    - Dataset: [GeLC-MS dataset](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jproteome.7b00483) ([PXD006843](http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/cgi/GetDataset?ID=PXD006843))
    - Metrics: precursor charge distribution for a single file (simple example), how many spectra/PSMs/peptides as a time series over multiple files (more complex example)?
    - Dave is pulling in the mzML and mzIdentML files from PRIDE to generate metrics with QuaMeter.

### 20 minute guide to mzQC

Somewhat more detailed introduction for developers.

Contents:

- Overview of the mzQC structure.
- Where to find relevant information in the specification document.
- Links to JSON serialization libraries in various programming languages.
- Examples, e.g. Yamato.

### mzQC for dummies

Dave offered to write a less technical introduction to mzQC.

### MIAPE-QC

The MIAPE-QC manuscript will get written at some time. Maybe we can even take advantage of being unable to generate new data due to the COVID-19 mess to write it. Not a major priority at the moment.

### Other documents

Which other documents and documentation do we need?

- What does an mzQC file look like?
- How to request novel metric and use in an mzQC file.
    - Two types of metrics: (1) metric that is already covered by the CV (e.g. how many spectra identified), (2) customized metric that needs to be added to the CV (e.g. what fraction of the precursors were +1/+2/...).
    - What to do when similar metrics (e.g. similar semantics but generated by a different tool) are already in the CV?

## mzQC format

Provenance information:

- Need to store information on which settings were used to generate the mzQC file.
- Store this information in the mzQC file itself rather than in an external file.
- Document that although this is not required, it is _recommended_ to include this information.

Reference ranges and thresholds

- Currently it's unclear how to store reference ranges and thresholds for decision making based on the QC metrics.
- We won't address this right now but put it on the roadmap for release 1.1.

## Specification document

Requirements enforced by the JSON schema:

- Required version of regex \d+.\d+.\d+.
- Required list of controlledVocabulariess.
- Required either a list of runQualities or a list of setQualities.
- _Optional_ element creationDate describing the creation date of the current mzQC file in date time string iso-format.
- Required metadata.
    - Required list of at least one inputFile.
        - Required properties location (URI), name, and fileFormat.
        - _Optional_ list of fileProperties, which contains elements referring to CV entries.
    - Required list of at least one analysisSoftware.
        - Required attributes to refer to a CV entry plus version and URI.
- Required list of at least one qualityMetrics.
    - Required attributes to refer to a CV entry: cvRef, accession, name.
    - _Optional_ attributes: description, value, unit.
