# QC working group teleconference 19 August 2020

## Attendees

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Dave Tabb
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## JSON schema update

PR with schema update: https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/pull/104

- `cvRef` has been removed, use only `accession` to refer to CV entries.
- We require that accessions are unique within all CVs. CV generators will need to ensure this.

The PR will be merged and used as starting point for a RC branch.

## Specification document

- Contributors and software: In the specification document or on GitHub to keep updated? Need to differentiate between consumer and producer tools.
- [ACTION POINT] Add yourself as author at the top of the document and in section 10.
- [ACTION POINT] Unit elements: Need to be explained better, we can add this in section 5.3.
- [ACTION POINT] There are some comments throughout the document: (i) complete the ones that have been resolved, (ii) poke the person responsible for resolving outstanding issues.

## Companion documents

Example mzQC files:

- [ACTION POINT] Reza will contribute a metabolomics example.
- SwaMe can be used to add a SWATH example.
- Mathias' tool almost functional.
- Real world examples should be generated by tools, but can be kept concise to avoid complexity. Show how the data structures are used.

Companion documents:

- [Bare bones mzQC explained](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/blob/schema-v0_1_1/spec_doc/companion_docs/20200729-a-barebone-mzQC-explained.md): Very simple file to explain the basics.
- Cornerstone technologies: Maybe not really needed, instead link to relevant existing technical resources (i.e. JSON schema documentation) in the documentation for developers.
- [ACTION POINT (Wout)] Elevator pitch for PIs: Needs to be concise for non-technical audience.
- [ACTION POINT (Julian)] Port existing information from GitHub on how to request a new metric to the companion documents.

We can put the companion documents on a readthedocs website.

## mzqc-pylib

- Syntactic validation is feature complete.
- Semantic validation is to be added.
- Chris' student has worked on a mzQC exporter in R, but progress is insufficient.
