# QC working group teleconference 19 May 2021

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

---

## Specification document

To `userParameter` or not to `userParameter`?

- Chris made a [strong case](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/issues/126#issuecomment-843877399) against including `userParameter` objects.
- Potential applications for a `userParameter` could be for example to store non-standard data types such as PNGs.
- However, the potential benefits do not outweigh the disadvantages Chris has outlined.

We will _not_ add a `userParameter`. If there is a strong need for such a mechanism in the future, we can address it in a new release.

## Semantic validation

- Mathias has implemented semantic validation in [mzqc-pylib](https://github.com/bigbio/mzqc-pylib).
- It is ok to just implement the semantic checks in Python, rather than with a special rule-based grammar. We only have a few semantic rules, so we don't need to add unnecessary complexity to make those checks.
- We need to add a page on GitHub where the semantic rules are collected for easy reference.

## Examples

- Mathias will work on an example to showcase QC metrics in an mzML file. Simple example: store the number of MS2 scans or the charge distribution in the mzML header.
- Wout will convert a QuaMeter example to valid mzQC.

## HUPOST

Dave has shared a blurb for inclusion in the [HUPOST newsletter](https://www.hupo.org/HUPOST):

> QC: Across all of biological MSmass spectrometry, efforts to increase repeatability and reproducibility of experimentation has become a priority.  Communicating quality information in a standardized way has the potential to improve interaction between quality metric-generating software (e.g. reporting the fraction of all MS/MS scans being identified in an LC-MS/MS experiment) and quality decision-making frameworks (e.g. recognizing an LC-MS/MS experiment is an outlier).  The mzQC format specification should shortly be released for public comment.  It is distinctive for being one of the first HUPO-PSI formats to employ lightweight JSON notation rather than XML, while continuing to define the terms employed in mzQC in a controlled vocabulary (CV).
