# QC working group teleconference 17 February 2021

## Attendees

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

---

## PSI Spring Meeting agenda

[March 22–26, 2021](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/1/d/13vBlgsI00AL5Py66uNStY6BACqhiLVgUriZjvjguTco/preview)

1. Document process feedback
2. Design mzQC and/or MIAPE-QC manuscripts 
3. Current and future mzQC implementations
4. PSI Semantic Metabolomics
    - ELIXIR semantic metabolomics didn't get funded unfortunately, but Timo & Steffen will join to discuss potential future collaborations.

## Specification document

General overview of comments received from the SC:

1. implementation & validation

- semantic validation
- software representation
- software availability

2. use case description

- good/bad scenario
- metabolomics (format origins lie in proteomics MS)
- QC runs/blanks

3. structure

- author list
- TOC

4. CV

- own section
- obo status

Mathias has added the SC comments as notes to the specification document.

Detailed discussion of some comments:

- JSON validation: We will need a validator service. We will clearly list all semantic validation rules in an appendix document.
- Specify that we use the `.mzqc` file extension in the introduction.
- Specify that the format itself does not make any judgement or recommendations about which QC metrics to use or judge experiments.
- Note that mzQC has mainly been developed for proteomics and only minimally supports metabolomics? Are there hidden assumptions inherent to proteomics (for example: LC, MS/MS). However, the format is general enough to support a wide variety of experimental set-ups (the example metabolomics file is from a GC-MS experiment for instance). We will ask Oliver & Sam to provide feedback on metabolomics use cases.
- Briefly describe QC samples and blanks in the context of carry-over.
