# QC working group teleconference 18 July 2019

## Attendees

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Paul Brack
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

---

## Roadmap to mzQC v1

Refer to the [roadmap](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1929qzGTuXmIdUTHCqMuLhrYgUh0e6OIejX6fY38QHHU/edit#gid=0) for tasks to be completed and intermediate deadlines.

The following tasks need to be completed:

- Conception
    - The schema was finalized at the spring meeting, some minor changes based on feedback from software implementations might still be needed.
- Documentation
    - Write the specification document.
    - Specify and document semantic rules.
    - Clean up the website and provide all informtion.
    - Write the implementation/validation document related to the semantic rules.
- Examples
    - Add an example file for each type of metrics (run/set).
    - Provide a reference implementation and other supporting software.
    - Real-world examples for various use cases from different software tools.
- Close
    - End of project: **November** -> We should aim to report to the PSI committee _this year_.

## [Pull request #69](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/pull/69)

Reference implementation and semantic validator in Python based Mathias's and Wout's code.

- Syntactic checking: Has been fully implemented.
- Semantic checking: Has been partially implemented. We need to define more semantic checks and implement these.
    - Is this a coherent set of QC metrics? For example, if there is a metric that's derived from another metric, the latter metric needs to be available.
    - Meanwhile we don't want to be too overbearing, cfr. Clippy in Microsoft Word.
- Naming consistency: CamelCase vs snakeCase.

## mzQC software

- SwaMe: Dave sent around an example mzQC file generated by SwaMe for SWATH QC. SwaMe implementation by Marina Pauw with help from Paul Brack in C#.
    - Paul will extract this functionality in a stand-alone library.
- [SProCoP](https://skyline.ms/skyts/home/software/Skyline/tools/details.view?name=SProCoP): MSStatsQC is a metric consumer and takes input from SProCoP. We should contact Michael Bereman to discuss mzQC functionality in SProCoP.
- We really need an R writer/parser for mzQC files as well! SProCoP/MSStatsQC are written in R, as is PTXQC, whereas the current reference implementation is written in Python. Do we have R developers who can write a nice interface for mzQC?

## Miscellaneous

- Concerns about the size of mzQC files due to some repetitive information. However, for current MS workflows mzQC files should remain manageable on all systems.

## Action points

- Everyone: Check whether all metrics in the implementations are already in the CV, otherwise request them.
- Everyone: Share the mzQC software implementations that are currently still in private development.
- Everyone: Compile good examples using your tools for various use cases.
- Chris: Share the report on QC for SWATH that was mentioned during the call.
- Dave: Contact Michael Bereman w.r.t. mzQC support in SProCoP.

**Important!** As we're in the crucial phase for mzQC v1 completion our next call will be in two weeks. The next call will be on _Thursday August 1_. A reminder will be circulated via the mailing list.
