# QC working group teleconference 1 August 2019

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Paul Brack
- Reza Salek
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

---

## CV

CV restructuring:

- Julian started restructuring the CV a few months ago ([#67](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/pull/67)).
- Chris contained working on the CV this week ([#71](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/pull/71)).

We need to settle on a final hierarchy for the CV because every new reorganization causes a delay. Dave has emailed Julian to ask for the CV status.

## Open CV issues

- [#64](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/issues/64): Why is ambient humidity a tuple? Resolution: incorrectly specified initially, needs to be updated to a single value in the CV.
- [#71](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/pull/71): Should we introduce hierarchies in the CV? It can be useful to know whether metrics pertain to the MS/RT/sample preparation/... A similar subdivision can be made for metrics pertaining to a single scan versus metrics averaged over an entire run, etc.
- Do we want to try to match the same metrics across different tools? No, it will be very hard for metrics to be comparable between different tools; even for a single tool small implementation changes can cause changes in the metrics values. Tool developers will take ownership of their own metrics. This will lead to some duplication in the CV, but that isn't a (big) problem.
- [#59](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/issues/59): Developers will need to be able to easily add new terms to the CV. We clearly need to specify this procedure.

There is an important distinction between user friendliness and developer friendliness. We need to make the CV as easy to use for developers as possible so that they can make their software easy to use for their users. In contrast, the QC software users won't need to interact with the CV themselves.
 
## mzQC software implementations

Which mzQC software implementations exist currently?

- OpenMS (Mathias): QC metrics generation by OpenMS will be available in the OpenMS repository.
- Python parser (Mathias/Wout): The official Python parser/validator is available in the mzQC repository. See pull request [#70](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/pull/70).
- SwaMe (Dave/Marina/Paul): SwaMe will be available via the [Yamato](https://github.com/PaulBrack/Yamato) (= a very fast mzML reader) repository.
- QuaMeter (Dave): New mzQC export functionality will be available via ProteoWizard. Dave has asked Marina for a timing estimate on when this might be available.

## Miscellaneous

Dave has emailed Michael Bereman about mzQC in his SProCoP software, but hasn't received a reply yet.

---

## Action points

- Request that missing terms are included in the CV. For example, all terms used in the example files that are not in the CV yet.
- Focus on the CV! We need a finalized CV to create proper mzQC example files.
- Several technical questions were identified in the follow-up mail to the meeting agenda. Resolve these in the next two weeks via issues on GitHub / the mailing list / Slack.
