# QC working group teleconference 26 September 2019

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

---

## CV

Mathias has opened several issues on GitHub requesting new CV terms. He will work with Julian to get these added to the CV, potentially discussing them during a future call when Julian can attend as well.

### Distributions ([#90](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/issues/90))

How should we describe distributions in the CV and as a metric?

- Do min/max values need to be included in the quantiles? Yes, otherwise a piece of information is missing.
- It needs to be specified how outliers are determined (e.g. 1.5 IQR, ...) because people determine outliers differently.
- How to represent a distribution might differ between tools, but each tool will request its own version of a metric with the corresponding (clearly described) interpretation.

Important! We need to encourage best practices for representing a distribution in the specification document.

### Linking to identifications

ID-based metrics crucially depend on the quality of the corresponding identifications.

- We need to emphasize this important caveat in the specification document so that users are clearly aware of this.
- Some ID-based metrics might be computed from unfiltered identifications, others from filtered target-decoy identifications; this needs to be clearly stated in the metric definition.
- We will preferentially require identifications in the _mzIdentML_ format to be able to unambiguously understand how the identifications were obtained.
- A related type of metrics could be "spectrum quality": how likely is it that a spectrum can be confidently identified? This can be based on sequence tags (e.g. [Dave's ScanRanker publication](https://doi.org/10.1021/pr200118r)).

## Progress towards v1.0

Are we still making steady progress towards mzQC version 1.0 (specification document and manuscript)?

- We've lost some of the focus we had after the spring meeting in Cape Town.
- But the schema has been finalized over the summer.
- We need to make progress in the documentation phase now.

## Miscellaneous

For our future calls we will revert back to a monthly schedule on the third Thursday of the month. A notification will be sent out prior to every meeting via the mailing list.
