# QC working group teleconference 17 October 2019

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Paul Brack
- Reza Salek
- Dave Tabb
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## CV

Requesting CV terms:

- [PR #84](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/pull/84) contains several new metrics from [issue #52](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/issues/52).
- As per [issue #83](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/issues/83), CV terms should now include comments to facilitate their interpretation.
	- CV terms should include sufficient information to understand their meaning, exact implementation details typically aren't necessary.
	- Should the units be described in the comment or should they be an official part of the term definition?
- The procedure to request CV terms is currently briefly outlined in the issue template. We have to provide this information in a README as well.
	- Keep it short and simple (3 paragraphs maximum).
	- Outline: "How to add mzQC support to a new tool?"
		- Create a new issue to request CV terms.
		- Describe the metric so that people understand with it means.
		- Use the proper units.
		- Re-use existing elements.
	- **Action point:** Create a draft, which is to be discussed during next month's teleconference.

## San Diego 2020

Next year's HUPO-PSI spring meeting will take place in San Diego on March 23‚Äì26, 2020.

Keynote speakers are: Pieter Dorrestein (UCSD), Norm Davey (University College Dublin), Gary Siuzdak (Scripps Research).

New this year will be a poster session on Monday 23/03.

The following time is reserved for working group discussions:

- Monday 23/03 13:30‚Äì17:00 (minus half-hour break)
- Tuesday 24/03 09:00‚Äì17:00 (minus breaks and lunch)
- Wednesday 25/03 09:00‚Äì15:30 (minus break and lunch)

We need to settle on an agenda for these sessions. If we don't need to fill the whole 2.5 days we can yield some time back to other activities (tutorials, etc.).

Proposed topics:

1. Specification document free-for-all
2. Consuming mzQC files
3. Reviving MIAPE-QC
4. (üèÑ)

### Specification document

The specification document will likely be the main focus for the PSI meeting.

**Action point:** Mathias will create an outline of the specification document. He will communicate this with Dave in two weeks. The outline will be discussed during next month's call.

### MIAPE-QC

Work on MIAPE-QC has stalled after Jinmeng finished her PhD. Dave will take the lead on this project; get in touch with him if you want to contribute. You'll be able to get a first-author publication out of it!

## Miscellaneous

There was a proposal to change the call schedule from Thursdays to another day of the week. A doodle will be sent around to check people's availability.
