# QC working group teleconference 21 February 2019

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Reza Salek
- Dave Tabb
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## Connecting metric definitions to external CVs

We can leverage external CVs to connect metrics to concepts from analytical chemistry. Dave has provided links to PSI-MS for the QuaMeter ID-free metrics. (See also [issue #54](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/issues/54).)

Example:

```
[Term]
id: QC:4000061
name: maximal MS2 frequency
def: "The fastest frequency for MS/MS collection in any minute over the complete run" [PSI:QC]
is_a: QC:4000003 ! single value
is_a: QC:4000010 ! ID free
is_a: QC:4000024 ! MS2 metric
relationship: has_relation QC:4000013 ! QC metric relation: one run
relationship: has_relation MS:1000580 ! MSn spectrum
relationship: has_relation MS:1000029 ! sampling frequency
```

Notably, the `relationship` connections on the final two lines have been added. Connections are specified using the `has_relation` link.

Advantages:
- Interpretability.
- Users can easily find metrics that relate to a specific part of the analytical workflow.

Connections to external CVs (PSI-MS, unit) will not be mandatory but are encouraged. This will have to be clearly stated in the instructions to developers.


## Document process

How does the PSI document process work?

- Dave has checked the guidelines.
- Mathias has done it before for mzQuantML.
- Some changes to the document process might happen at the upcoming spring meeting.

Steps:

- Compile a specification document with instructions.
- Send this document to the PSI steering group.
- A PSI editor will ask the community for feedback.

We will focus on finalizing the mzQC specification right now, the specification document will naturally follow from this.
We will need to include the rationale to switch from XML to JSON in this document and highlight the benefits of JSON as other people won't be familiar with it.


## GitHub issue list and release 1.0 project

We have a bunch of [open issues on GitHub](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/issues).

Mathias has closed some of the issues already, but he needs help! Check which issues you can work on.

- The old auto-migrated issues can probably be dismissed as they relate to the XML format.
- Issues can be marked with release 1.0 to prioritize them.
- The [release 1.0 project](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/projects/1) contains TODOs that need to be completed for release 1.0.


## Continuous integration

Mathias has set up Travis to do continuous integration. For every commit the example files will be validated against the latest schema.

- Symbolic links pointing to the most recent schema.
- `.CI` folder with pytest scripts.
	- Check whether the example files exist.
	- Validate the example files against the schema. This is only a syntactic validation so far, semantic validation will need to be implemented externally.

Travis CI: Python scripts are called for every pull request that do some validation using the current schema and current example files


## Spring meeting tutorials

As there will be a lot of new participants who have never attended a PSI meeting and who don't have that much hands-on experience with the PSI formats, there will be some tutorials for entry-level education.

You can [propose topics for a tutorial now](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1XvMuEKzRGl5MCA0c6SUo82xnWTyO9Zjd4xOKIVKfCO8/edit#gid=883553738) (2nd tab).

Current tutorial topics:

- Dave: Workshop on QC metrics and how to highlight outliers.
- Other groups: What are the advanced options in Proteowizard and how do they affect peak lists?

Everyone is welcome to add a tutorial topics. The length of a tutorial session will be 1 hour.
