# QC working group teleconference 18 April 2019

## SWATH metrics example

- Paul: Finalize and share the example mzQC snippet containing SWATH metrics in a matrix.

Paul has sent around an example of mzQC for SWATH metrics in a message today.
Paul also created an example of an iRT-based data table metric, but we are unsure of its present whereabouts.

## Internal references

- Timo/Mathias/Wout: Finalize and share the example mzQC file demonstrating internal references.

We are currently unsure about this implementation because it uses a proposed but not formally accepted JSON mechanism.

## Tools support

- Dave/Timo: Contact Meena Choi in April about mzQC export in MSstats/MSstatsQC. Timo can address this in person with her when he's visiting Boston next month for the computational proteomics course.
- Dave: Contact Oliver Fiehn to inquire how we can support GC-MS metabolomics in mzQC and advertise this to the metabolomics community.

Dave has set aside time on April 23rd for this purpose.

## PRIDE metadata effort

- Mathias: Align source data for CVs with Yasset's metadata efforts.

Mathias suggested this wasn't completed.

## Logo

And LOGO!  I sent an image to the Google Hangout that Paul Brack created to humor my silly concept for the mzQC logo.  I like it, yes, even the 3D version!

## Miscellaneous

We had a bit more discussion about synchronizing schema and cv versions (Julian added a pull request for a new CV number).  Dave pledged to update his JSON example for Lizex's 1091_Pool_start IDFree metrics on April 30th.
