# QC working group teleconference 29 August 2019

## Attendees

- Paul Brack
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## CV
PR #80 , Julian summarised the additions to the CV, adaptions from #71 integrated into current structure. 
Julian will create a 'other issue' github template next to the 'new metric' issue templalte.
Further metrics to come, Mathias will try out the template next week for the metrics implemented in his tool.

## Schema
PR #79 , Mathias summarised the discussion on the changes outlined on the previous call. 
A discussion was had about keeping the FileProvenance structure in the schema. The discussion 
revealed a complexity to provenance that the current design would not be able to acommodate. Hence,
this feature to the schema will be removed and a more focused development is left for the next 
release after the initial one. Some aspects that came up during the discussion:
* file vs sample provenance - we might be interseted in the capability to optionally carry sample provenance.
* several aspects about the instrumentation c(/sh)ould be kept beside the type, like serial number / name, 
  method file, sequence, firmware versions..
* processing details are important, too. Software versions, OS, ...

Paul to ask for better description of the file -researchobject- used (/developed?) in Manchester.

## Implementations
Mathias finished the pyhton library to the extend possible (pending schema changes). 
Additionally, he implemented a metric generation tool, outputs of which he will circulate next week.
Paul hinted there might be another round of SwaMe generated output which then might need cv accessions.

## Documentation
The readme.md file in the repository need revision. We need to inform how to get new metrics, use the schema,
find implementations and examples (maybe a proper landing page?).
AP everyone!

Further consideration on the presentation of a mzqc file:
* markups/print(pdf)/html render
* probably not prerendered, however plot code is usually pretty unwieldy/maintenance intensive and come with a lot of dependencies
* base64 representations of png/jpg can be directly rendered in any browser. 

---

## TODO 
* collect and refine examples 
* detail and document envisioned usecases
