# QC working group teleconference 24 July 2024

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Mathias Walzer

---

## CV

**Problem:** PSI-MS-CV was causing issues in OLS due to the use of STATO terms, causing PRIDE submissions to go down.
- Yasset [removed all STATO terms](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/psi-ms-CV/pull/296) as a stopgap solution.
- Proposal: [Reintroduce STATO terms](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/psi-ms-CV/pull/299) without importing the CV in the header.
- ✅ This is sufficient for our validator.

**GitHub:** There are several old PRs related to CV porting, as well as the old CV still on GitHub.
- The PRs can be closed. Most relevant content has been moved to PSI-MS-CV, and it would take too much time to figure out what's what.

## Validator

- Mathias has updated the validator to address several issues that were recently identified. Additionally, the documentation has been extensively updated and it now includes several installation scripts for add-on functionality.
- Mathias will continue to work on updates and improvements, e.g. supported files for ID-based metrics.

## Alternative mzQC use cases

**Metabolomics**

- Mathias presented the metabolomics batch correction use case, which is based on small molecule GC-MS data.
    - This use case could also be integrated in the mzQC manuscript.
- We should ensure that our CV terms are inclusive for various fields such as metabolomics and lipidomics.

**MS imaging**

- Chris talked with some MSI people on campus: currently there's no standardized approach or tool support for QC yet.
- They will write a grant together to start developing such QC software.
