# QC working group teleconference 3 April 2024

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Tim Van Den Bossche
- Mathias Walzer

---

## mzQC software libraries manuscript

Rather than synchronizing publication of the manuscript with the main manuscript describing the mzQC format itself, we decided to submit it to the [JASMS special issue on computational mass spectrometry](https://axial.acs.org/analytical-chemistry/jasms-call-for-papers-special-issue-on-computational-mass-spectrometry) (submission deadline April 30, 2024).

Technical aspects related to finalizing the manuscript:
- Move away from the Nextflow analysis workflow because it just added complexity and compatibility issue. It is also overkill for this limited example.
- Discussion on the necessity of proper FDR control, including lowering the FDR threshold to 1% to account for E. coli's small proteome, and the need for protein-level FDR control, as we report protein results.
- All software libraries and the analysis repository on GitHub need to be brought up to date matching the results in the manuscript. Repository cleanup can still happen after the manuscript submission as well.
- Discussion on how to represent the results of the QC analysis in the manuscript. Tim had some suggestions and will try to clarify the figure, after Mathias shares the latest updated version.
- Requests for missing CV terms were submitted to the PSI-MS-CV repository.

Related discussions:
- mzQC file merging is a relevant task that should be easily supported by the software libraries. For the current manuscript a somewhat hacked-together solution initially suffices.
