# QC working group teleconference 26 June 2024

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann
- Tim Van Den Bossche
- Mathias Walzer

---

## mzQC website documentation and examples

- Many of the examples on the website are outdated or even invalid (missing files, incorrect units, validation failures).
- We started working on updating the examples based on the 1.0 spec at the Spring Meeting 2024.
- We distributed the additional examples to review and update ([#225](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/issues/225)).
    - The full mzQC file successfully passes validation with our validator.
    - The mzQC snippets in the corresponding markdown file are updated accordingly.
    - The description in the markdown file is accurate and informative.
    - Pretty format the mzQC JSON content (indentation 2 spaces).
    - Format the markdown page to have each sentence start on a new line (for convenient git diffs).
- We noticed that there's duplication of the example files in the GitHub repository.

As we were looking at the examples, the online validator seemed broken. Mathias will look into this.

## mzQC support in tools

We should expand the information on tools that support mzQC on the website. Current tools with preliminary mzQC support are:

- PTX-QC: Framework to export to mzQC is in place, requires additional metrics implementation.
- Quameter: Wout will create a Python postprocessing script to convert its TSV to mzQC.
- QC Calculator: Needs further development and integration.
    - Mathias will prioritize development of a dashboard for longitudinal mzQC files over the QC Calculator.

We will prioritize tools based on use cases for the mzQC manuscript and try to encourage other developers to integrate mzQC support now that the libraries are available.

## mzQC manuscript

- Current Status: Manuscript contains ideas and structure but requires substantial work.
- We discussed the different use cases. Key next efforts will include getting started on those examples.

## Other

- Nils currently has submitted two proposals to integrate automatic QC calculation for MetaboLights submissions. Could be very cool.

## Action items

- Wout:
    - Finalize the updates for the individual run and multiple run examples.
    - Recreate the Quameter to MZ QC conversion script.
- Mathias:
    - Ensure the validation setup runs correctly.
    - Update the QC example, focusing on the metabolomics batch correction and QC sample plots.
- Nils:
    - Double-check the metabolomics example and ensure it adheres to the final specification.
- Chris:
    - Add more metrics to PTX QC.
    - Reach out to OpenMS developers regarding MZ QC support.
- Team:
    - Update the GitHub issue tracker with tasks and responsibilities.
    - Collect and track new QC tools and developers for outreach.
