# QC working group teleconference 15 November 2024

- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## In-person mzQC meeting

- **January 15–17, 2025** has been selected for the in-person meeting in Antwerp, Belgium.
- Wout will send around an invitation and travel information for people planning to join in-person.

## PSI Spring Meeting 2025

- The [PSI Spring Meeting](https://www.psidev.info/spring-meeting-2025) will take place on March 31–April 3, 2025 in Tübingen, Germany.
- The first two days will be a workshop on making proteomics data AI-ready.
- The last two days will feature regular PSI sessions.
- Registration (free) is open until early February.

## pymzqc validator

- Mathias presented some bug fixes to address several open issues for the validator.
    - We discussed uniqueness of input file names and that this refers to a `runQuality`/`setQuality` scope rather than an entire mzQC file.
    - We should start an addendum file with such information to complement the specification document.
- Mathias and Nils will look into setting up a system to automatically deploy new releases of the validator to the website.

## mzQC use case

- Wout had a meeting with Theodore Alexandrov, Chris Anderton, and Kumar Sharma on the NIH-funded Kidney Precision Medicine Project (KPMP).
    - They have developed QC methods for MS imaging, including m/z calibration, stability, and batch comparison.
    - Wout has sent technical information on mzQC, they will now take a stab at an initial implementation of mzQC export from their tools.
- Nils discussed QC for clinical lipidomics using [MRMkit](https://github.com/MRMkit/MRMkit) with colleagues in Singapore.
    - They have [rich clinical lipidomics data](https://github.com/SLINGhub/sling-data-workshop-2024) with plenty of metrics and are interested in supporting mzQC.
