# HUPO-PSI Spring Meeting 2024

## March 19, 2024

- Wout Bittremieux
- Kozo Nishida
- Tim Van Den Bossche
- Mathias Walzer

## Tutorials and examples

Going through the [tutorials and examples](https://hupo-psi.github.io/mzQC/examples/) to make sure they are compliant with the 1.0.0 format. Some tutorials were fully updated, some need new CV terms, others still need to be revised.

- Common issues with the examples:
    - CV version needs to be updated.
    - Some outdated CV terms used.
    - Units were not always specified for all relevant metrics.
    - Make sure that the file name and location match, and that the latter is a proper URI.
    - Warnings by the validator if optional information is missing. For completeness of these examples, optional information has now been included.
- Reorder examples going from introduction to mid-level to advanced topics.
- Issues in the Python notebooks could be resolved by upgrading the Python version to 3.10+. Some links fixes needed as well.

This also revealed some bugs in pymzqc:

- Installation issues due to outdated version of Pronto and fastobo.
- Activate GitHub Actions for Python 3.10+.
- Incorrect specification of `unit` in `qualityMetric`, make it of ctype `cvParameter`.
- Allow `proteinGroups.txt` from MaxQuant as an identification file.
- Fix installation of offline validator script.

Validation issues:

- Faulty URIs flagged as inconsistent inputs.
- The file extension is inconsistently split from the input file name and location. Instead don't remove the extension prior to checking whether these two correspond to each other.
- Display the active version number on the validator web page.

## Promoting mzQC

Most current material is geared towards bioinformaticians. Instead, our main audience should be the broader scientific community, to educate them on how QC can improve their work.
Therefore, besides technical tutorials and examples, we should clearly describe which end-to-end tools are available and how to harness mzQC. This already needs to be obvious from the website's main page!
Some more details were added to the [tools page](https://hupo-psi.github.io/mzQC/resource-guide/#qc-software), but this still needs to be significantly extended with information on the various tools implementing mzQC and which QC metrics they can calculate.
