# QC working group teleconference 10 January 2024

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## PSI Spring Meeting

[Registration](https://www.psidev.info/hupo-psi-meeting-2024) for the PSI Meeting 2024 is now open!

Potential topics for our working group during the meeting are:

- mzQC manuscript: Discuss and develop use cases.
- Organizing CV and metrics: Organizing and visualizing the current CV, terms, and metrics. Conceptualizing future directions for managing the CV as it expands. In collaboration with the PSI-MS working group.
- Hackathon: Integrate mzQC support in new and existing QC software. Can be performed asynchronously, as people can work on the tools that they have developed previously.
- Promotional and education material: Evaluate our current documentation and promotional material (tutorials, presentations, videos). Prepare workshop material for conferences.
    - Nils will include a plug for mzQC in his keynote presentation at the EuBIC-MS Winter School 2024 next week, covering mzQC in the context of clinical QC and lipidomics. This will also include a tutorial on lipidomics tools and exercises for mzQC.

Given remote participation across different time zones, the mzQC manuscript activities were identified as most relevant for the afternoon sessions.

## mzQC software libraries manuscript

Action items to finalize the manuscript:

- Mathias: Confirm details about the datasets used for analysis and ensure consistency in the manuscript and notebook.
- Nils/Mathias/Chris: Check for consistency between the Java/Python/R code snippets. Ensure that they show relevant functionality.
- Wout: Some more edits and updates to the manuscript based on the meeting discussions. Move the code snippets to the supplementary information.
