# QC working group teleconference 22 August 2025

- Wout Bittremieux
- Julian Uzkoreit

---

## McQuaC CV Term Requests

- Wout has submitted comments on a PR for McQuaC CV terms. Julian confirmed that most comments were valid and have been implemented or addressed.
- Julian clarified that the CV term regarding protein group reporting reflects the total number of accessions across all protein groups, not the count of distinct groups, due to lab preferences.
- Julian also performed a broad renaming of CV terms based on Wout's feedback to improve clarity and consistency.
- Action: Wout to review the updated PR and approve it if satisfactory.

## BioHackathon Planning and Coordination with PMultiQC

- Wout and Chris previously discussed avoiding redundancy with existing efforts by Yasset on pmultiqc.
- They contacted Yasset to explore collaboration, aiming to build on pmultiqc rather than duplicating its functionality.
- Yasset was unavailable for this meeting but is expected to join the next meeting to provide input on useful extensions.
- Julian supports the idea and mentioned the potential of integrating pmultiqc into Proteobench.
- Both agreed that extending pmultiqc with mzQC support could be a focus for the BioHackathon.
    - Possible tasks: calculating new metrics, integrating them, and conducting downstream analyses.
