# QC working group teleconference 28 February 2025

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Mathias Walzer

---

## PSI spring meeting

- The registration for the Spring Meeting is at max capacity (70 attendees).
    - Mathias & Chris will not be able to join.

## CV term requests

- Julian is working on CV terms, but progress needs to be checked.
- Mathias presented a few terms from TDAuditor and will review them prior to proposal on GitHub. Some of the discussions need to be reprised when Dave is available.
- Discussion on CV terms related to precursor activation methods. **Mathias** will open an issue in the PSI-MS-CV repository to address term organization.

## Metabolomics batch correction website example

- PR 233 needs final verification before merging.
- **Wout** will revisit its status and loop **Mathias** in.

## pymzQC validator

- Current numeric severity scale (1-9) is too complex and arbitrary. Plan to simplify to standard logging levels: Error, Warning, and Info.
- **Mathias** will prepare an overview of existing log levels before implementing code changes.
- We should cross-reference semantic checks with the specification document to ensure completeness.

## mzQC manuscript

- Outlier detection: **Wout** needs to work more on the interpretation. **Chris** will look into Dave's issue with rmzQC.
- Lipidomics: Mathias has made progress in processing the data; relevant QC metrics need to be selected now. **Mathias** will share a Google Colab notebook with a preliminary data analysis to review.
- DIA: **Dave** is continuing work in DIAmetric.
