# QC working group teleconference 13 June 2025

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## JSON Schema and Specification Alignment

- A persistent validation issue was traced to discrepancies between the mzQC JSON schema and its specification document.
- Specifically, the `label` field in the `metadata` subsections of `setQuality` was missing but is required per the mzQC specification.
- The current JSON schema does not enforce `label` as a required field; it is marked optional. This is incorrect and must be updated to reflect the specification.
- Action: **Wout** and **Mathias** will update the JSON schema on GitHub to require the `label` field.
- Since the JSON schema version v1.0.0 was never officially released, this correction can be appended without triggering a formal version bump.

## Validator Updates and Release Plans

- pymzqc currently does not support CV parameters in `metadata`; this bug has been fixed in the source but not yet released.
- A validator bug concerning duplicate input file names was discussed. The issue arises when input files share base names but differ in extensions (e.g., .mzML vs .mzTab).
- Decision: Use full filenames including extensions in the name field to maintain uniqueness. This aligns with validator expectations.
- Action: **Mathias** will script or manually update example files to include file extensions in name fields for uniqueness compliance.

## rmzqc Status and Improvements

- rmzQC has a new release that improves error detection, particularly for unsupported or undocumented fields in mzQC JSON files.
- A dependency issue with the ontologyIndex R package was highlighted:
    - It causes a mismatch between CV term definitions and validator expectations.
    - Although the issue was fixed upstream, the update has not been published to CRAN.
    - Action: **Chris** will follow up once more; if unresolved, he may implement a custom parser.

## Controlled Vocabulary (CV) Term Clarifications

- A discussion was held on clarifying "retention time" definitions, particularly around "start of the run" versus "start of data acquisition."
- Decision: Definition should refer to "start of data acquisition" to avoid ambiguity, especially since not all runs start recording from injection.
- Action: **Wout** updated CV proposals accordingly and will open an issue in PSI-MS-CV to refine the term scan start time for consistency.

## Use Case and Manuscript Progress

- Repository: Chris has created a dedicated repository under MS-Quality-Hub for all use case scripts.

Outlier Detection Use Case:

- Wout is implementing explainable outlier detection using SHAP to interpret metric contributions.
- Current focus is on verifying interpretation accuracy and alignment with known anomalies.

Lipidomics Use Case:

- Progress is ongoing; recent discussion with collaborators in Singapore clarified sample design.
- ~3 pages of metric TODOs have been drafted, but no implementation yet.

DIA/DIAmetric Use Case:

- Dave contributed code and figures identifying non-conforming isolation windows; this complements existing use cases.

Additional Use Case Ideas:

- Repository-scale QC with metabolomics data from the PSI Spring Meeting is a potential fifth use case.

## BioHackathon 2025 Planning

- mzQCâ€“related session has been accepted.
- Leads and co-leads are guaranteed participation; early nomination of critical contributors is advised.
- Action: **Nils** will share admin contacts and further registration details as they become available.
- Potential collaborations include integration with mzTab-M and other PSI formats.

## Student Contribution and Dashboard Development

- A GSOC student (Denmark-based, studying in England) may contribute to the mzQC visualizer.
- Currently unpaid; funding options are being explored via OpenMS.
- Action: **Chris** will continue mentoring and evaluate funding logistics.

## Open Issues and Miscellaneous

- Finalizing log severity categories (info, warning, error) for pi-mzQC is blocking the next release.
- Action: **Mathias** will simplify logging structure and will coordinate via Slack for category placement feedback.
- Additional CV term PRs from TDAuditor are still pending review.
