# QC working group teleconference 7 March 2025

- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## Metabolomics batch correction website example

- PR 233 has a remaining issue with a discrepancy between metrics on the run and set levels (number of identified quantification data points vs. MS1 feature areas).
- Proposed solution: Introduce new, more general CV term or duplicate existing term with slight modifications to address discrepancies between run-level metrics (identified quantification counts) and set-level metrics (PCA of MS1 feature area).
- Decision: Agreed to duplicate existing CV terms and clarify definitions, initially focusing on MS1 feature areas, adding specificity as new use-cases arise. **Wout** will open a PR with new terms in the PSI-MS CV repository.

## pymzQC validator

- Mathias presented the categorization of errors, warnings, and info messages.
    - Error: Structural or semantic violations.
    - Warning: Non-fatal but potentially confusing issues needing attention (e.g., definition conflicts).
    - Info: Recommendations or best practices.
- Action item: Each participant to individually review the [current 21 checks](https://github.com/MS-Quality-Hub/pymzqc/issues/60) and propose how to categorize them into errors, warnings, and info. Results to be harmonized next meeting.

## Lipidomics use case for mzQC manuscript

- Nils and Mathias made some more update on the data analysis. Mathias presented the latest analysis in a [Colab notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1z_419GeCBpMuCZuU7xYu97G1HheRJNo9) that currently serves as a scratch pad but will be turned into a coherent analysis and supplementary material.
- Visualization of experimental design discussed (timeline plot and violin plots to represent run variability).
- Action item: Mathias to clarify and enhance the readability and interpretation of plots. Input from team welcomed in the notebook or via Slack.
