# QC working group teleconference 15 April 2020

## Attendees

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Paul Brack
- Dave Tabb
- Julian Uszkoreit

---

## Spring meeting wrap-up

What is the current status after the spring meeting? [Summary slides](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/blob/master/meeting_notes/20200326-PSI-QC-Working-Group.pptx)

- Specification document: Significant work was done during the Spring Meeting in writing the specification document. Now we need to make sure it is finalized and it is a single coherent document.
- mzQC format: Input file provenance was discussed. The required information for input files is the file patch, file name, and file format. Additional information is optional but recommended (for example, checksum).
- CV
    - New CV terms will be added by Julian.
    - We should clearly specify a workflow to request and add CV terms.
    - Do we want to merge the CV obo into the MS obo in the future or keep it as a stand-alone controlled vocabulary? Probably better to not merge right now as there is no replacement for Gerhard yet.
- Documentation: We have created a 5-minute guide, mzQC for analytical chemists, and multi-experiment analysis in mzQC documents.

## Manuscript draft

Paul has started drafting an [abstract for the mzQC manuscript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-vELNWwQC5yJvb8VNU8WJS5x3JLTlQkgF6uvsW1M4jk/edit).

The goal of the manuscript should be to convince the analytical chemistry community of the usefulness of the mzQC format. How does a common JSON interchange format move the science of mass spectrometry forward? (Technical details should mainly be left for the specification document etc.)

A use case we might want to illustrate is how QC information helps to explore the quality of a dataset from ProteomeXchange.

## Action points

- Mathias: Assign tasks to finalize the specification document.
- Everyone: Think about tasks that have to be completed for the 1.0 release and add them to the [project view on GitHub](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/projects/1).

## Miscellaneous

- Julian will be on parental leave for a month starting next week.
