# PSI2020 all-virtual conference agenda for QC track

## 1. We need a release-ready CV

AP's:

1. Finish outstanding requests
2. Formalise requirements and suggestions
3. Check all entries against above requirements & suggestions
4. Hierarchy organisation & visualisation 
5. Is something missing? 
   - essentials (what are the essentials?)
   - priority *TODO*s (advertise participation/cooperation from/with specific tools/developers that might offer items on the list), 
   - wishlist (if someone wants to join in the future, prepare entry points to work onwards from)

## 2. companion documents

Work on the (companion) documentation for the standard specification. 
This is about targeting the right audience for each document.

AP's:

#### a. Target: Compute-savy MS folks, PIs, Editors, Reviewers

* How does json look like? Then, how does mzQC look like in particular?  (_not_ what is json, that would be too much for people how just want to get an impression)
* How does mzQC get visualised into a report? Which bits in mzQC are most important? 

#### b. Target: Tool devs, pot. mzQC consumers

* How are metrics organised? 
  - Explain the hierarchy
  - What is contained in a term definition, what are requirements/suggestions
  - How are the data types and units supposed to work
  - Examples, as walk-trough explanations for definitions, data types, consumption, and interpretation
  - Making a most informed suggestion for new entries
* Examples of integration with other formats 
  - How are references to/from other formats handled?
* [x] mzQC in 5 minutes
* mzQC in 20 minutes

#### c. MIAPE-QC

* Who would be thet target audience?
* Are different levels of reports possible, if yes which?
* Can we require values or just certain types of metrics to be assessed?

## 3. Specification document

Work on the documentation for the standard specification. 
This is about targeting the right audience for each section.

#### a. Target: Tool devs that know 2.1-2 already, anyone who needs a technical reference

* Examples in the specification document
* All examples in section6 - revise, check accession, format
* Other issues we want to adress in the specification:
  - Why we have metrics with one value and metrics with whole tables of values
  - Others?

#### b. Target: Technical people, QC veterans, PIs

* Appendix sections of the specification document
* Use-case descriptions

#### c. Target: PSI reviewers

* polish specification document (probably best last)
  - Author list, 
  - Pending comments, 
  - References, 
  - Softwares
  - Other omics?

> I'd also like to advocate against work on a manuscript _before_ we have mastered all the above tasks. 
We all need to have a clear idea what we are putting forward and substantiate those offerings of mzQC for the community. 
Sure there is still time when we are under PSI-review.
(Also, no dessert before dinner is finished and the kitchen is clean.)
