# QC working group teleconference 11 March 2020

## Attendees

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Reza Salek
- Dave Tabb
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## Specification document

The specification document is available [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/132F3MBgDJgtFlXxDZhpJ1oHGbKL8pT6dk9fvL55L5_M/edit).

- Mathias has responded to most of the comments.
- Mathias has sent around requests to add short paragraphs to describe a few use cases. Wout has added a paragraph on longitudinal QC monitoring.
- The examples will still need to be extended/completed.

The specification document is geared towards experienced people. We also need to prepare a few companion documents for novices:

- [5 minutes guide to mzQC](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/bigbio/mzqc-pylib/v0.0.3?filepath=jupyter%2FMZQC_in_5_minutes.ipynb)
- Additional tutorials covering various use cases.

## Spring meeting

- The spring meeting in San Diego is going to digital-only. The PSI steering committee will share the schedule for the digital meeting tomorrow.
- The meeting will still take place! So please block time in your schedule to work on mzQC together.
- Mathias will send out a Doodle to schedule meeting times and topics to account for people working in different time zones.
    - Topics should include MIAPE-QC as well.
- Prepare a list with links to the latest versions of all relevant documents in advance.

## CV

- Julian has implemented the SwaMe metrics submitted by Marina. Please review [issue 97](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/issues/97) so that the new terms can be merged into the CV.
