# QC working group teleconference 1 July 2020

## Attendees

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Dave Tabb
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## Specification document

Address comments in the specification document:

- Section 1: Don't mention qcML in the short summary. Clearly explain difference between mzQC and qcML in section 2.1.
- Section 4: Some use cases are still missing. Reza will add a metabolomics use case. Paul will add a use case on querying. We should mention different MS technologies (DDA, DIA (Dave), SRM, metabolomics). Future additions should not be mentioned in the use cases, but only in the corresponding section at the end.
- Section 5: Terminology: "experiment" vs. "injection" vs. "study"? "Injection" does not cover MALDI plates. "Experiment" is understandable for our audience.
- Section 6.3: "QC-CV" is a bit unwieldy but acceptable. Refer to GitHub issues as the main channel for requesting CV terms instead of the mailing list. The mailing list is the secondary channel for requesting CV terms. Detail the QC-CV before mentioning other CVs.
- Section 6.4: Mention PSI-MOD as a source of modifications next to Unimod.
- Section 6.5: Allow both nativeID and USI to refer to spectra. USIs are more powerful, but only cover public data (as a PXD identifier is required).
- Section 6.6: We should mention mzTab as a related file format as well, as it contains similar information as mzIdentML.
- Section 7.1: Should the sections be ordered alphabetically or logically? Ordering from outer to inner JSON elements makes it easier for new people to understand the format.

## CV references as PURLs

Using PURLS for CV references aims to facilitate querying metrics across multiple files. The disadvantage, however, is that querying would always require an online lookup. This is inconvenient at best, and at worst might not work on firewalled compute infrastructure such as clusters.

Further considerations for using PURLs:

- Changing the schema might antagonize early adopters.
- Having to submit the CV to OBOFoundry causes additional overhead. Managing new releases ourselves would be more convenient. In this case we would emulate PURLs using GitHub URLs.
- There would be a critical dependence on PURLs; what happens when they go offline? On the other hand, their historical longevity is reassuring.
- It would necessitate an extra parsing layer in the mzQC library.

Alternative solutions:

- Allow both PURLs and the previous cvRefs instead to cover both use cases.
- Mandate fixed CV namespaces, i.e. the QC-CV should always use "CV" prefix, ...

## Miscellaneous

- Planning for 2021: Dave's contract probably won't be extended past 2020. Potentially a sabbatical at the Pasteur Institute.
