# QC working group teleconference 7 October 2020

## Attendees

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

---

## Specification document

- XML vs JSON: We don't need to explain JSON from scratch, but give a high-level motivation instead. Resources for users new to JSON have been added.
- A single paragraph suffices to compare to qcML.
    - mzQC is easier in terms of IO, exchange, and visualization capabilities. Easy to use for web exchange and visualization, for which JSON is the standard.
    - Ease of use will contribute to a more widespread adoption. There are already more tools that support JSON before its official launch than for qcML after a few years.
    - mzQC is _not_ the qcML data format in just another format. This is already nicely conveyed by the current text.
- QC CV.
    - Wout has tried to make the text easier to understand based on an example CV term.
    - [ACTION] We still need to explain the `is_a` and `relationship` links. The `is_a` categories are not formally specified, but new CV terms should try to align categorization to existing categories. We can illustrate the existing hierarchy using categories from a specific metric generator rather than exhaustively listing all possible categories (being comprehensive is less important than clearly conveying the concept).
    - [ACTION] We should refer to section 7 for more information about the different value types.

## mzQC for multiple raw files

- Problem: PTXQC derives metrics from MaxQuant protein groups, which cover multiple raw files without an explicit one-to-one link to individual raw files.
- Solution: `inputFiles` is a list and can contain multiple files; at least one is required.
- [ACTION] This should be explained in the specification document (section 6.1.7).
- [ACTION] We should include an example with multiple input files generated by PTXQC in the appendix.

## mzqc-pylib

Status of the mzqc-pylib:

- The library is now up to date with the latest mzQC schema, providing syntactic validation.
- It is being used at PRIDE by Mathias and Yasset.
- [ACTION] Mathias can use some help to implement semantic validation.
- [ACTION] We need to document usage of the library and provide examples./
