# QC working group teleconference 20 May 2020

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Paul Brack
- Peter Crowther
- Reza Salek
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

---

## Metric querying

Important issue: [Fatal error when trying to use mzQC: namespaces make it impossible to query in standard JSON tools](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/issues/99)

See [Peter's presentation](https://sourceforge.net/p/psidev/mailman/attachment/20a86700-e302-0cfb-3248-3ae74f2686ea%40ebi.ac.uk/1/) for more details.

The current JSON schema doesn't support easy and efficient querying of metrics over multiple mzQC files. Ideally, querying should support the following requirements:

- Efficient: querying a QC metric over historical mzQC data for 100k-1M injections
- Sound & complete: No false positives or false negatives
- Robust: Transparrently support new CVs and QC analysis tools
- Validated: Usable in validated system

Unfortunately JSONPath has only limited functionality. For example, the following queries are problematic:

- What's the `cvRef` of the QC vocabulary?
    - Solution: Store CVs in an array and move the `cvRef` into the CV elements.
- What's the value of `QC:4000059` in the QC vocabulary?
    - To answer this query we need to retrieve a QC metric based on its `cvRef` and `accession`. This is currently not possible in a single query.
    - Solution: Merge `cvRef` and `accession` in a single attribute. Use PURLs to refer to the CVs explicitly instead of the implicit `cvRef` that needs to be cross-referenced with the CV items.
    - Caveat: CV terms should be immutably tied to their accessions, if not inconsistencies can arise. Consequently, terms should never be removed from a CV but listed as deprecated instead. If the definition of a term has to be updated, it should be added as a new term instead.

Proposed solution:

```
{
    "mzQC": {
        "version": "0.0.11",
        "runQuality": [
            {
                "metadata": ...,
                "qualityParameters": [
                    {
                        "accession": "http://purl.psidev.info/mzQC/QC:4000053",
                        "name": "Quameter metric: RT-Duration",
                        "unit": {
                            "accession": "http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UO/UO:0000010",
                            "name": "second“
                        },
                        "value": 0.028583333332999998
                    },
                    ...
                ]
            }
        ],
        "cv": [
             {
                “cvRef": “QC", // Wout (and Peter) think we can get rid of this in the new version?
                "namespace": "http://purl.psidev.info/mzQC/",
                "name": "Proteomics Standards Initiative Quality Control Ontology",
                "uri": "https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/raw/master/cv/qc-cv.obo",
                "version": "0.1.0“
            },
            ...
        ]
    }
}
```
    
Advantages of the proposed schema change:

- Metrics can be queried easily and efficiently.
- Persistent URLs are easy to provide.

Disadvantages of the proposed schema change:

- It deviates from previous PSI standards.
- Slightly larger files (although they should compress well).

# Action points

- Wout: Propose an updated JSON schema to address the issue we have discussed.
- Everyone: Please have a look at the discussion points Mathias has raised: https://sourceforge.net/p/psidev/mailman/message/37015762/

