# QC working group teleconference 21 October 2020

## Attendees

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Dave Tabb
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## CV

Significant changes to the CV were made in PRs [96](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/pull/96) & [102](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/pull/102); these need to be merged in `master`.

- Fix for some metrics with the wrong type.
- TODO: Some metrics are of type "corresponding list", this needs to be converted to "n-tuple".
- TODO [Mathias]: Some table metrics have a non-matching number of rows.

Documentation

- We currently don't have a metric of type "matrix" yet. Can we include one as an illustration of such a metric? Metric example: in a SWATH experiment, subdivide by SWATH and RT; split each SWATH in quartiles and TIC per RT block. The number of SWATHS and time slices are arbitrary and form the dimensions of the matrix. Dave has requested Marina to compile such an example.
- Mathias has created a [CV guide](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/blob/bulk-cvterms/cv/CV-guide.md).

Units for CV terms

- Previous PSI CVs specify the unit type using XML-based `xref` notation. We don't depend on XML anymore and this has been requested to be removed by OBOFoundry contributors.
- Instead the unit type should be specified using `has_unit`. This should also be properly described in the specification document.
- We will support standard unit types: `int`, `float`, `string`, `date`, `time`, `datetime`.
- If a CV term doesn't have a type or unit, specify `none`.
- It is recommended to specify units using CV terms defined in the UO.
- TODO: We should check all CV terms to make sure they adhere to this.

Different unit used in an mzQC file than defined in the CV?

- Should we allow redefining the unit of a CV term in an mzQC file or should a new CV term be requested instead in this case?
- Decision: Units in the mzQC file MUST be the same as units in the CV.
    - Requesting new CV terms when the unit changes can cause (some) CV bloat, but will boost consistency and automatic interpretability.
    - The unit MUST still always be specified in the mzQC as well to make this self-contained.

Metric categories

- Metric categories provide useful information about metrics (for example ID-based vs ID-free), but are often somewhat arbitrary and should not be an integral component of the CV.
- TODO [Wout]: Update the specification document to reflect that it is recommended instead of mandatory to specify categories.

Metric names

- Do we restruct the names to a certain character set and length?
- Yes, for simplicity of parsing we will RECOMMEND to use ASCII characters.

## Miscellaneous

Out next meeting will be **Friday 6/11 14:00 GMT** (6:00 San Diego, 15:00 Brussels, 16:00 Cape Town).
