# QC working group teleconference 17 June 2020

## Attendees

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Reza Salek
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## PSI review process

Goal: initiate the review process as soon as possible; after addressing the current issues.

- The review process will start with a two week period to find suitable reviewers.
- Mathias has already asked Juanan to give comments.
- We can use as many reviewers as possible to get the perspective of external people.

## Specification document

- Should we mention metabolomics as a main use case? Yes, we want to bridge the gap to the metabolomics community.
    - We'll need metabolomics example files as well, ideally generated by software. Alternatively we can create hand-crafted example files based on a few simple metrics.
- The CV is briefly described in section 6.3. Because the mzQC format is tightly integrated with the QC-CV, do we need to provide more information here or in a separate document?
- The description of the schema elements is ordered alphabetically for easy look-ups. Figure 1 gives a hierarchical overview of the schema.
- Should we use "CamelCase" or "camelCase" for the schema elements? Consistently use "camelCase".
- Units for `cvParameter` (section 7.1.19).
    - What to do about potential inconsistencies between units in the mzQC file and the controlled vocabulary? Should the mzQC file take precedence? Potential issues when comparing values for a metric across files if they unexpectedly don't use the same unit.
    - Better explanation of metric definitions in column headers needed.
- Recommendations and pending issues in section 8 will be split in two separate sections to clearly distinguish between best practices and issues that might be addressed in a new version of the format.
- Core authors are listed at the start of the document. A full overview with affiliations and all contributors is listed in section 10.
- The appendix contains links to additional documents rather than merging everything into a single big document.
- All documents should be available in a single location such as the GitHub wiki or a readthedocs website.

## Action points

- Everyone: Thoroughly go through the specification document before the **next meeting on July 1**.
