# QC working group teleconference 6 November 2020

## Attendees

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Dave Tabb
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## CV

[PR 96](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/pull/96) has been merged, small tasks remaining for [PR 102](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/pull/102).

PR 102 includes the following changes:

- `has_relation` can be used to link to other CVs such as the PSI-MS CV.
- Units specified using `xref` have been removed.
- Instead a `has_units` property value is used. A small downside of having to specify this as a property value is that only the accessions can be listed, not the unit term names.
- Corresponding lists have been deprecated and terms of this type have been converted to tables.

Do units need to come from the UO? For example, some metrics use STATO terms as unit:

```
[Term]
id: QC:4000186
name: Precursor errors (Da) Q1, Q2, Q3
def: "From the distribution of Precursor errors (Da), the quartiles Q1, Q2, Q3 value" [PSI:QC]
comment: The absolute precursor error distribution can aid the interpretation of overall identification success.
is_a: QC:4000009 ! ID based
is_a: QC:4000001 ! QC metric
is_a: QC:4000004 ! n-tuple
property_value: has_units STATO:0000167
property_value: has_units STATO:0000574
property_value: has_units STATO:0000170
```

- However, the STATO terms give information on how to interpret the metric, but are _not_ actual units. In the example "Da" should be the unit, not the STATO terms.
- Instead metric types (STATO) can be specified using `is_a`.
- Metric types (STATO) are RECOMMENDED to be specified for metrics, units (UO) are REQUIRED.

Should it be possible to specify different units/types for values of a tuple?

- Example: quartiles can be encoded as a tuple with different quartile types or as multiple separate metrics.
- The advantage of separate metrics is increased clarity, the disadvantage is that the CV will grow faster and it will results in slightly larger mzQC files.
- Decision: Tuple metrics MUST have uniform units and types. Otherwise they should be split up into separate metrics.

TODO:

- [Mathias] Assign units to terms.
- Update the information in the specification document accordingly.
