# QC working group teleconference 8 December 2021

## Attendees

- Chris Bielow
- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer

---

## ASMS workshop

Wout gave a brief report of how the workshop went and the feedback we received from participants.

## Specification document

Today is the last chance to make final modifications to the specification document prior to resubmitting it to the PSI document process. Mathias will resubmit it to Sylvia afterwards.

## Merging the QC CV in the PSI-MS CV

- As discussed during the PSI-MS weekly call, we will split the QC CV in manageable chunks to evaluate the merge over multiple PRs. The first PR will help to determine how smoothly the integration will proceed.
- The first PR should contain terms related to the root QC node, "infrastructure" terms, and a representative set of QC metric terms. We will use the QuaMeter IDfree metrics, as these are well documented and understood.
- As discussed during our previous teleconference, we will consistently specify inheritance using `is_a`. `relationship` should not be used for this.
- What exactly does the `has_relation` tag signify? We can simplify our metrics by removing these tags and including the relevant information in the definitions instead. For future machine-readable inclusion of this information, `associated_with` (in analogy with UML) might be more descriptive.
- `has_type` should be renamed to `has_value_type` for consistency with the PSI-MS CV.
- Value type definitions should be specified using the xsd definitions for consistency with the PSI-MS CV.

Our next teleconference will be January 5, 2022. Happy holidays!
