# QC working group teleconference 29 September 2021

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann
- Dave Tabb

---

## ASMS workshop

[ASMS workshop material](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1frOR9Z1BZE5ELzl0XznQsPqZWE0IzEEnK9hvsZ87Lds/edit?usp=sharing)

1. Dave has prepared a brief skit. The purpose is to get people engaged at the start of the workshop and have them thinking about what adequate QC looks like.
2. Wout gives an overview of contemporary QC for biomedical MS (15 min). What QC can do for you, which tools exist? This will be broader than shotgun proteomics (touching on iTRAQ, MALDI, imaging would be interesting). Include a brief foray in ML and automated decision-making to highlight future perspectives and developments by our working group.
3. Dave has reminded Chris, Paul, and Mathias to prepare their pre-recorded videos (5 min) by **October 22, 2021**.
    - The videos will also be put on Youtube so that they are available to a broader audience, and shared via social media. This will advertise the working group beyond just this single workshop.
    - Goal: Get inspired to start using this software!
4. Dave will give a tutorial of his Assurance software (max 30 min).
5. Wout will prepare a QC bingo.

## Integration with the MS CV

- We had a discussion with the MS working group to synchronize both CVs.
- A few technical changes are required to consistently encode information in our CV before we can merge. No major conflicts were identified.
- Requests for new CV terms should be reviewed by members of our working group. We should set up a separate issue template on the PSI-MS-CV GitHub repository to be notified when new QC terms are requested.
- We will need to revise the instructions in our specification document after the merge has been completed.

## Miscellaneous

- Next meeting: October 13, 2021.
- Deadline to record videos for ASMS workshop: October 22, 2021.
