# QC working group teleconference 21 April 2021

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Dave Tabb
- Julian Uszkoreit

Excused:

- Tim Van Den Bossche
- Mathias Walzer

---

## Specification document

Action points for the specification document:

- Specify how non-computable numbers (NaN, Inf) should be encoded. The JSON standard does not support such values, although the Python json library does. Check how the mzTab specification encodes these values.

### 4. Controlled Vocabularies

- Include information on how to request CV terms.
- Mention that there are currently no plans to merge the QC-CV and MS-CV.
- **@julian**: Figure out how we can submit the CV to the [Ontology Lookup Service](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ols/index).

### 5. Other Data Formats

mzML:

- Mention that an mzML file may report that a corresponding mzQC file has been developed that incorporates it.
- Create a small mzML–mzQC example file on GitHub.

USI / nativeID:

- Include examples with both nativeID and USI specifiers.

SDRF:

- The raw/peak file doesn't contain extensive information about the experimental design, which is where SDRF comes in. SDRF can help to define the study design to inform the calculation of QC metrics.

### 6. Format Specification

- **@wout**: Provide a `userParam` type for temporary metrics that don't have a CV term (yet).
- We spell out `cvParameter` for consistency with other terms in mzQC files, rather than `cvParam` which is used in some other PSI formats.
- It was decided to retain the `description` attribute of `qualitMetric`s. This will probably not occur very frequently in mzQC files, but we keep it in the specification to give people flexibility to use it.
- **TODO**: Specify the type of arrays by replacing "array" by "array of TYPE".

### 8. Validation

- **@mwalzer**: Address syntactic and semantic validation of mzQC files.

### 12. Authors

- Author order is alphabetic by surname.

### 15. Copyright

- **@wout**: Change to a CC BY-NC license.
