# QC working group teleconference 11 August 2021

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Mathias Walzer

---

## CV integration with PSI-MS CV

The internal PSI reviewers have requested exploring the harmonization and integration of the QC CV with the [PSI-MS CV](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/psi-ms-CV/).

What are necessary changes to remove inconsistencies with the PSI-MS CV?

- Should we keep our `QC` prefix or switch to the `MS` prefix? The PSI-MS CV currently already contains terms from two different namespaces: `MS` and `PEFF`.
    - There are three terms with the `MS` prefix in the QC CV, initially meant as placeholders. These can already be transferred to the PSI-MS CV.
- Units should be described using `relationship` instead of `property_value`.
- The PSI-MS specifies the value type using `relationship: has_value_type` and `xref: value-type`. At least one of these should be added, but can we discard the XML-style `xref` items? Inquire whether this duplication of information is required.
- We should double-check all imports for third-party CVs (currently UO, PSI-MS, OBI, STATO).
- There are still several open CV requests on GitHub. We have started addressing some outdated CV requests.
- Our column type terms have a different flavor than other terms in the PSI-MS CV (e.g. column type and unit definition). Does this lead to potential issues?
- What will be our term request procedure in the future? We currently have an established procedure via GitHub. Our request template is more elaborate than the PSI-MS CV request template --- do we move our template to the PSI-MS CV as an extra option? Who will be responsible for handling such requests?

As a first step we will get in touch with the PSI-MS working group to discuss the best steps to integrate both CVs.
