# QC working group teleconference 3 February 2021

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Reza Salek
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

---

## HUPO PSI Spring Meeting 2021

[Schedule](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13vBlgsI00AL5Py66uNStY6BACqhiLVgUriZjvjguTco/edit#gid=1021763599)

Topics for the QC working group:

- Discussion of feedback from document process on mzQC format specification.
- Charting a manuscript design for introducing mzQC format.
- Discussion of current and future implementations of mzQC.
- Charting a manuscript to demonstrate minimal information about proteomics quality control (along with a list of fields that everyone should be able to populate).
- Discerning the need for continuing our working group as a separate HUPO-PSI track for 2022 and beyond.
    - Existence of the working group is driven by future projects we might want to tackle (for example: develop new QC metrics, new software, etc.). Identify tasks and goals we want to accomplish in the future.
    
There are synergy opportunities to link up with QC efforts in metabolomics. QC will be part of an upcoming ELIXIR initiative on semantic metabolomics, led by Reza, Oliver Kohlbacher, and Steffen Neumann.

- [Action] Dave will map topics to slots to compile an agenda.
- [Action] Mathias will contact Steffen Neumann to invite him to join a session to present on semantic metabolomics QC.

## Specification document internal review

We are currently waiting on the feedback of the interval review. That deadline is today, so we will hear something soon.

## How to encode (super)sets

Defining sets of raw files can be useful to report metrics for a grouping of runs (for example, by MaxQuant). A hierarchical structure can be relevant (cohort > fractions > runs).

- [Example of batches visualized using PCA](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/blob/master/doc/metabo-batches.mzQC.md)
- Metadata directly included in the PCA metric or not? It might be better to split PCA values and metadata into separate metrics so that each metric is semantically cohesive and that new metrics that can be used to factorize points in a plot can be added easily.

## mzQC and/or MIAPE-QC manuscript

- We will spend a full day at the Spring Meeting to work on the manuscript(s).
- The mzQC and MIAPE-QC stories can be combined in a single manuscript or as separate manuscripts.

Availability:

- Dave: Limited time for writing the manuscript in the near future.
- Wout: Can take the lead on drafting the manuscript(s).
- Mathias: Can take the lead on drafting the manuscript(s).
- Reza: Can contribute a section on metabolomics.

[Action] Everyone: Brainstorm about how best to structure the manuscript(s).
