# HUPO-PSI Digital Meeting 22–26 March 2021

## Attendees

- Pierre-Alain Binz
- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann
- Timo Sachsenberg
- Reza Salek
- Dave Tabb
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Tim Van Den Bossche
- Axel Walter
- Mathias Walzer

---

## mzQC manuscript

Goal:

- Key message to convey: mzQC is impactful! QC is a very real problem and there is a large community of analytical chemists in need of a solution.
    - mzQC is scalable: from individual spectra ([DDA example](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/pr200118r), [top-down example](https://academic.oup.com/bioinformatics/article/35/18/3489/5306329)) to repository scale.
    - mzQC supports a wide diversity of MS experiments ([QC for Skyline](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.jproteome.8b00732), [QC for MALDI](https://bmcbioinformatics.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12859-015-0752-4)).
    - What is possible with mzQC that wasn't feasible before?
        - Repositories can communicate data set quality using web tools.
        - Synergy in QC development across all types of biological MS.
        - Common interface for different metric generators to detect QC phenomena.
        - Data model for longitudinal archival of QC metrics.
        - Data organization during evaluation of metric definitions.
        - Provenance, configuration, versioning.
- Outline: (i) use cases, (ii) technical detail of implementation, (iii) reference implementations and examples of use.
- Target audience: Both analytical chemists (requires mature tool ecosystem) and bioinformaticians.
- Target journal: Analytical Chemistry / JASMS.
- Format: Research article (rather than a short communication).

What are the advantages of mzQC?

Some design points/aspects re-appear in different arguments, because they are beneficial in multiple scenarios.

1. Useful as a handover and collection format.
    - QC info for "a study" in one place.
    - Easy to parse & add new metrics.
        - Full "spectrum" coverage of QC: all parts of the experiment pipeline (even the non-MS bits are possible, and all parts of the data analysis from MS definitively).
        - Multi-omics ready.
        - Simple structure and (almost) ubiquitous JSON support.
    - Due to CV control, "chunking" retains much of the semantics, meanwhile making generic access possible.
        - API access for archives or projects where parsing is impractical.
        - Visualisation-friendly metric types (see 2).
    - JSON already the de facto data interchange format on the interwebs.
        - Compatible with modern data flow design (cloud based applications & workflow pipelines).
2. Simple to visualise from (use as report format).
    - Again: Easy to parse.
    - Simple to collect values (if even necessary).
        - Hierarchical structure (metrics of one run inside one parent).
        - Values already in tabular format.
    - Values themselves fully specified, so the user knows which type and unit a value (or column of values) has.
        - Yet unseen metrics are plottable with "old" code due to the metric specification structure.
3. Clean organisation (simple hierarchy & CV control) makes for easy reading — human and automated.
    - Fully specified "data types" — makes integration of mzQC from other tools easy and automatable.
    - Validation made simple, makes handover more robust.
    - Extension with new metrics is non-invasive process.

## MIAPE-QC

- Jinmeng Jia previously created an initial version of the MIAPE-QC guidelines. She has created a list of items that should be included in a MIAPE document.
- The field can benefit from a greater consciousness of what makes a proteomics experiment repeatable. Address the reproducibility crisis in science.
- It might be challenging to get such a manuscript published, but it is a worthwhile effort if we can introduce relevant ideas on how to talk about QC in proteomics.
- It can be framed as a viewpoint article to start the discussion about MIAPE and educate the community. QC in mass spectrometry is currently sorely neglected.
    - Don't approach this from a bioinformatics viewpoint only.
    - We need to provide a tool ecosystem to help users follow the MIAPE-QC recommendations.
    - Incentive: QC helps to interpret data.
- High-level questions to address in a MIAPE-QC manuscript:
    - Design: Was a pilot experiment performed? Was power analysis done?
    - Mass spectrometry: Did the instrument perform reproducibly?
        - [Deodorant as lock mass](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/pr100780b), what can PTMs reveal about sample preparation (.e.g. old urea causes carbamylation).
    - Data: What fraction of the data were accounted for in any derived information?
    - Data management: Are the data and methods adequately described and available?
- Resources: [PSI MIAPE guidelines](https://link.springer.com/protocol/10.1007%2F978-1-62703-631-3_53), [EuBIC-MS best practices](https://eubic.github.io/ReproducibleMSGuidelines/).
