# QC working group teleconference 2 June 2021

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Dave Tabb
- Mathias Walzer

---

## ASMS workshop

Should we try to organize a QC workshop at the upcoming ASMS conference (November)?

- Try to avoid overlap with other workshops, i.e. the LC-MS interest group.
- Proposed format: "Why bother with QC?" Argue different viewpoints about QC. Potential topics: number of replicates, QC best practices.
- The proposal submission deadline is July 1.
- **@Wout:** Prepare a 250 word abstract to be discussed during the next teleconference.

## Specification document

Mathias has worked on the specification document:

- Section 5.1: An integrated mzML–mzQC example. The example itself will be moved to GitHub.
    - QC elements can be associated with (i) a complete mzML file, or (ii) individual spectra.
    - The current example only demonstrates the latter. For illustration purposes we will also add global QC information in the mzML header (example metrics: how many MS1/MS2 spectra, charge state breakdown).
- Section 5.4: Clarification on how to use USIs and nativeIDs.
- Section 8: Mathias has added a note on validation.
    - Syntactic validation using the JSON Schema does a lot of the heavy lifting.
    - A handful of semantic rules were collected in the specification document. They will be mirrored to GitHub, which will then have the updated list of semantic checks.
- Examples: Wout has converted the QuaMeter example to mzQC. Units for the quality metrics are still missing and will be added in the next few days, after which Dave will perform a final check.
    
## Planning

- **Until Wednesday June 9, 2021**: Mathias, Wout, Dave finalize the specification document and do final checks.
- **Until Wednesday June 16, 2021** (next teleconference): Send the specification document to the QC mailing list and everyone gives final feedback!
