# HUPO-PSI Digital Meeting 22–26 March 2021

## Attendees

- Wout Bittremieux
- Nils Hoffmann
- Claire O'Donovan
- Timo Sachsenberg
- Dave Tabb
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Tim Van Den Bossche
- Axel Walter
- Mathias Walzer

---

## Specification document

Comments from the internal PSI review were addressed:

- Is there need for a "user parameter" to encode arbitrary values (e.g. terms not (yet) in a CV)? No, requesting a CV term is straightforward and CV support is comprehensive.
- We have specified that the recommended file extension is ".mzqc".
- We emphasize the important point that the mzQC format does not require any metrics to be present or judge the quality of an experiment; it is merely a technical format to store data. In contrast, downstream users might use the mzQC format to assess experimental quality based on their personal acceptance criteria and context-specific rules. For example, data repositories could require the presence of certain QC metrics for successful public data deposition.
- Rather than making a hard distinction between proteomics and metabolomics use cases, we want to support any type of biological mass spectrometry. We have clarified that the primary use case is proteomics, but that we explicitly want to fully support metabolomics as well. As such, use cases in the specification document have been deliberately kept general to cover a wide variety of MS applications.
- We have split up the section about alternative file formats in (i) controlled vocabularies, and (ii) other file formats.
- We have reformatted the positioning of mzQC w.r.t. the historical qcML effort to make this distinction more clear. This is now integrated with the section on why we use a JSON format rather than XML.
- Invalid links to the example files in the appendix have been fixed.

Questions:

- mzQC files for multiple raw files might grow large. We currently recommend compression for this situation, but parsing a single large file might become problematic as well. Indexing to quickly retrieve information from a large mzQC file might be relevant for a future version.

## Semantic validation

The mandatory presence of specific CV terms can be validated using a rule-based mapping file (e.g. [mapping file from mzML](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzML/blob/master/validator/src/main/resources/ms-mapping.xml) or inspired by jmztab-m). Nils has Java code to validate mzTab-M files based on such a mapping file.

Can we validate some of these rules already in the CV? The metric definition stored in the CV (implicitly or explicitly) defines the dimension and data type of the values. This still needs to be explicitly enforced in the mzQC files.

For semantic validation:

1. We should implement validation in mzqc-pylib.
2. We should collect all of those rules in a document.

## Example files

General notes for the example files:

- They should demonstrate best practices. For example, the [single run example](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/blob/master/doc/single-run.mzQC.md) should be updated to include units for the metrics.
- **@cbielow**: Chris will create a multi-run example file from MaxQuant/PTXQC. He still needs a few more CV terms to finalize that example.
- **@Dave**: Dave will create a QuaMeter example file from 120 RAW files for outlier detection. QuaMeter currently does not export to mzQC directly yet, we will convert the QuaMeter tsv to mzQC using a small Python script instead.

## Outreach

There are similar efforts for:

- [metabolomics](http://metabolomicssociety.org/board/scientific-task-groups/data-standards-task-group)
- [lipidomics](https://lipidomics-standards-initiative.org/)

---

## Controlled vocabulary

Current status of the CV:

- PR #102 to significantly overhaul the CV was recently merged.
- PR #98 with SwaMe metrics can probably be merged.

CV organization:

- `Typedef`s to specify relationships between terms.
- Term numbering is amenable to merging into the MS CV.
- Definitions function as control mechanisms.
- Concrete QC metrics start at [QC:4000050](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/blob/master/cv/qc-cv.obo#L203).
- CV terms include information to categorize them. (e.g. ID based/free, retention time/chromatogram/MS1/M2 metric). This is valuable information to interpret metric, but is unlikely that it will be comprehensively or correctly provided when metrics are requested. We will encourage best efforts to provide this information.

Action points:

- Review the names and descriptions of all CV terms to make sure that they are unambiguous and understandable.
- The metric request guidelines on GitHub should be updated to reflect the latest version of the specification document and provide sufficiently detailed information. This includes:
    - The [CV README](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/tree/master/cv).
    - The [CV entry issue template](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/blob/master/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/request-for-new-cv-entry.md).
    - The [CV guide](https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/mzQC/blob/master/cv/CV-guide.md) should be split into two new documents: (i) how to use the CV, (ii) how to request CV terms.
        - TIC is probably a better example of a table metric.
        - A "matrix" metric example from SwaMe should be included.
    - "Advanced" and "simplified" request forms might cater to users with different levels of experience.
        
Should we merge with the MS CV or keep the QC CV separate? The QC CV has slightly diverged from the MS CV in terms of information content and request procedure. Because the CV will likely be stable and only mandate a small expected workload for the coming years we will keep it as its own CV as long as we have an independently functioning working group.

**Action points:**

- Review and improve the term definitions (Mathias & Julian).
- Update the CV request issue template and documentation.
