# QC working group teleconference 20 January 2021

## Attendees

- Chris Bielow
- Paul Brack
- Reza Salek
- Julian Uszkoreit
- Mathias Walzer
- Wout Bittremieux*
- Dave Tabb*

*:last minute due to time-zone mix-up 

---

Call's discussion started with the announcement that orthogonal developments regarding the value typing replacement of xref's within PSI-MS-CV are taking place. There is a good chance for synergy and it might be a good time now to join the discussion in https://github.com/HUPO-PSI/psi-ms-CV/pull/50

Following was a review of PR #112 detailing the multi-run example.
Chris explained the current situation and the predicament with supersets of metrics. 
Paul cautioned to focus on user-group/use-case majorities and avoid specifications that would complicate parser implementations.

After, Mathias listed some points that might be expected to arise with the end of the internal review on Feb 2nd and how the review process is going to look like after that. 
One conclusion was to prioritise work on the current PR working with the examples and the CV, in order #112, #102/#113.

Last item on the agenda discussed was the topic of publication.
Dave suggested to also consider combing the publication, traditionally within PSI describing the format to provide an anchor for proper citation, with the work done already on MIAPE.  
Everyone is invited to consider ideas for next call, which was decicded to take place Feb 3rd.    
  
### TODO
- Chris: sketch possible solution mzQC snippets for a solution to the superset metrics issue, continue discussion on #112 on slack
- Everyone to collect ideas that should go into the publication
- Mathias: annotate gdoc with mini todos 
